COMPOSITE METAL-NON-METAL STRUCTURES ARE OBTAINED FIRST MOLDING A POROUS PERFORM OF THE NON-METAL IN PARTICULATE FORM USING A BINDER WHICH WILL BOND THE PARTICLES BY PYROLYSIS PHENOMENON. THE PREFORM IS THEN TRNASFERRED TO A MOLD WHERE IT IS THOROUGHLY IMPREGNATED BY MOLTEN METAL.
A method for forming metal-filled ceramics of near theoretical density comprising the positioning of a ceramic compact in a vacuum chamber together with a quantity of the filler metal. The chamber is heated above the melting point of the metal and evacuated to a vacuum pressure of less than 10 6 torr. The vacuum removes the oxide film on the surface of the molten metal, thereby permitting the metal to flow freely into the ceramic void spaces.
This invention covers ceramic-metal compositions fabricated by infiltrating a porous ceramic compact with a molten metal impregnant. A cold pressed compact of silicon boride, aluminum boride, boron, and (aluminum boride-boron) were each positioned between powdered aluminum in a vacuum furnace which enabled the molten aluminum to infiltrate into the porous ceramic by capillary action. In addition, a porous ceramic compact of aluminum boride was similarly infiltrated with silicon.
A ceramic-metal material system is fabricated by cold compressing separate adjacent volumes of different ceramic material or different particle sizes to form a porous ceramic compact; infiltrating each separate volume of the compact with a molten metal, the first separate volume of the compact being infiltrated with a metal having a higher melting point than the metal which infiltrates the second separate volume and forms an interface with the first infiltrated metal.
A sintered metal die or mold having formed therein an internal channel for conducting a heat transfer medium therethrough, and a method for producing same. The method includes the steps of disposing sintering powder, such as iron, copper, tungsten carbide or titanium carbide, in a frame or box, about a pattern made of an infiltrant metal, such as copper, lead, cobalt, nickel, iron or alloys thereof, having a lower melting point than that of the sintering powder, the pattern corresponding in configuration to that of the cavity surface of the desired channel for the heat transfer medium and being positioned within the sintering powder in the position desired for the channel, heating the powder together with the pattern to sintering temperature, whereby to sinter the powder and infiltrate the infiltrant metal forming the pattern into the powder, and cooling so as to obtain a sintered metal die or mold having an internal channel whose configuration complements that of the pattern surface.
The present invention relates to a method of manufacturing a metal-impregnated body by immersing a porous ceramic or ceramic powder in a solution containing a chemical compound having an OH radical selected from the group consisting of water and aqueous solutions of methanol, ethanol, butanol, acetone, acetic acid and ammonium hydroxide; drying and molding it into a porous body; and then impregnating said porous body with a molten metal.
A process for forming a composite material comprising a metal matrix incorporating fibrous reinforcement having a pre-determined pattern of fibre orientation which includes the steps of providing in a mould substantially parallel fibre arrays in which each array consists of a sheet of substantially coplanar fibres, providing a reservoir of molten matrix metal between at least some of the fibre arrays and applying pressure to the mould contents sufficient to force molten metal to surround substantially all the fibres.
A carbon fiber reinforced metal matrix composite is produced by depositing a metal boride coating on the surface of the fibers and subsequently immersing the fibers in a molten bath of the metal matrix material. The boride coating is formed by passing carbon fiber through a gaseous mixture of chlorides of the metal and boron in the presence of zinc vapor at elevated temperatures. The subsequent reaction deposits out a submicron lamina of metal boride on the carbon fibers serving to enhance wetting of the fibers by the molten metal, with the lamina preventing chemical reaction between the fibers and metal matrix materials and also providing a strong mechanical bond therebetween.
A composite material of aluminum or an aluminum alloy, reinforced with a fiber or whisker form of unmodified alumina. The material is produced by preheating a mould and a mat of unmodified alumina to a temperature in the range of 700° C. to 1050° C. Molten aluminum or its alloy free of elements which react with the alumina are introduced into the mould to cover the mat. A pressure of at least 75 Kg/cm2 is applied to the contents of the mould to overcome the surface tension between the alumina and the molten mass of metal and to cause the molten mass to fully penetrate the alumina mat. Upon solidification of the molten aluminum, the composite material is obtained.
A carbon fiber reinforced metal matrix composite is produced by metal oxide coating the surface of the fibers by passing the fibers through an organometallic solution followed by pyrolysis or hydrolysis of the organometallic compounds. The metal oxide coated fibers so produced are readily wettable without degradation when immersed in a molten bath of the metal matrix material.
Carbon fibers in a carbon-fiber-reinforced metal-matrix composite having a relatively very high modulus are treated with a relatively thin amorphous carbon coating precedent to a metal-oxide film to improve the adhesion thereof to the carbon fiber thereby facilitating the wetting of carbon fibers to molten matrix metal.
A composite metallic and refractory article and a method for manufacturing the article is described in which a metallic layer is partially adsorbed within a refractory layer, such as a ceramic layer. The density of the refractory layer increases as it extends away from the metallic layer. The composite is formed by forcing a molten metal under pressure into the pore structure of the refractory layer. Conveniently, a desired internal shape of the finished product is achieved by using a male mold portion to supply the required pressure and to simultaneously form the article having a desired internal cavity. The application of pressure continues long enough to allow the molten metal to become sufficiently adsorbed within the porous refractory layer. When the composite solidifies, the male mold portion is withdrawn from the finished article. In one embodiment the article formed is a piston having a heat resistant ceramic cap combined with an aluminum body.
A fiber reinforced metal type composite material is composed essentially of a mass of reinforcing fibers intimately compounded with a matrix metal. The reinforcing fibers are either alumina fibers, carbon fibers, or a mixture thereof. The matrix metal is an alloy consisting essentially of between about 0.5% and about 4.5% magnesium, less than about 0.2% each of copper and titanium, less than about 0.5% each of silicon, zinc, iron, and manganese, and the remainder aluminum. Preferably, the amount of magnesium is between about 0.7% and about 4.5%, and even more preferably it is between about 1.0% and about 4.0%.
A process and apparatus for the continuous production of shaped aluminum alloy-particulate composites. The process comprises metering at a substantially constant ratio a particulate solid molten aluminum alloy containing at least 0.10% by weight of magnesium into a mixing station while continuously vigorously agitating to produce a homogeneous mixture, simultaneously discharging from the mixing station a homogeneous mixture of molten aluminum alloy and particulate solid, transferring the mixture to a forming station and shaping and solidifying the composite.
A method of treating filaments in order to increase their wettability by molten magnesium or an alloy thereof. The filaments are treated by coating them with particulate molybdenum trioxide, chromic oxide, ferric oxide or nickel oxide and subsequently infiltrating them with molten magnesium or an alloy thereof.
A rotor for a rotary compressor having a metal central portion integral with two opposite end portions that are fiber-reinforced metal matrix composites having a matrix metal common to the central portion. Such rotors may be made by pressing inorganic fibers to form the end portions of the rotor, arranging the end portions in an opposing relationship in a mold to form the central portion between the end portions. Molten metal is placed into the mold such that it infiltrates the porous end portions while forming the central portion. Solidification of the metal forms fiber-reinforced metal-matrix composite end portions integral with the central portion.
A metal article such as a piston for a diesel engine has at least one portion which includes a matrix composite reinforced by inorganic ceramic fibers, wherein the density of fibers and/or the fiber orientation in the matrix composite is varied to provide superior resistance to thermal fatigue while having superior strength and wear characteristics.
A method for bonding aluminum and aluminum alloys to refractory materials. A body of metal is heated to an elevated temperature at a total pressure above the vapor pressure of aluminum but less than atmospheric pressure. Oxygen partial pressure is maintained sufficiently low to prevent substantial oxidation of the metal. The heated body is contacted with a mass of refractory material and cooled, thereby forming a composite.
Reinforced composite magnesium-matrix articles, containing silicon carbide fibers or particles, are produced by a casting process wherein a small amount of lithium, less than about 0.7% by weight, is included in a melt of magnesium matrix alloy to facilitate wetting of the reinforcing material and ready dispersal thereof in the magnesium matrix alloy.
Reinforced composite aluminum-matrix articles containing a non-oxide reinforcing material, such as silicon carbide fibers or particles, are produced by a casting process wherein a small amount of lithium less than about 1%, by weight, is included in a melt of aluminum matrix alloy to facilitate wetting of the reinforcing material and ready dispersal thereof in the aluminum matrix alloy.
An alumina composite body comprising a plurality of elongated alumina elements oriented in random directions and interconnected so as to constitute a porous matrix, and aluminum and silicon tightly filling the porous matrix; and a method of manufacturing an alumina composite body comprising reacting a body of silica, or a body of a silicon compound such as silicon carbide or silicon nitride which has been at least partially oxidized to produce silica, with aluminum so as to change the silica into alumina.
A fiber-reinforced piston for internal combustion engines, comprising a molded body of inorganic fiber forming a top land and a ring region of the piston. The molded body has a content of granulated fiber having larger particles of a particle diameter less than 100 mesh in an amount of not more than 10 weight percent with respect to the total amount of fiber used, and a light alloy matrix fills and is combined with the molded body of inorganic fiber.
A reinforced piston is provided for an internal combustion engine. The uppermost piston ring groove is as close as possible to the crown of the piston. At least the lower surface of the groove is defined by an en-cast insert and overlying this is a portion of the crown reinforced by fibres, thus allowing this portion to be thin and the spacing between the ring groove and the upper surface of the crown to be minimized. The reinforced crown portion also holds the insert against axial separating movement. The crown can be provided with a combustion bowl whose entrance is reinforced by the fibres.
Reinforced composite aluminum-matrix articles containing silicon carbide fibers or particles, are produced by a casting process wherein the silicon carbide fibers or particles are mixed with dehydrated sodium tetraborate and mixed with molten aluminum or aluminum alloy whereby wetting of the reinforcing material and ready dispersal thereof in the aluminum matrix alloy is facilitated.
Carbon fiber-reinforced light metal composites comprising a light metal and carbon fiber having a three layer-coating, i.e. a layer of carbon, a protective layer against deteriorative reaction, and a wettability-improving layer superposed outwardly in the order mentioned, are provided. The carbon fiber-reinforced light metal composites are manufactured by binding carbon fibers having the aforementioned three layer-coating with a light metal.
Reinforced composite aluminum-matrix articles containing up to 20%, by volume, silicon carbide fibers or particles, are produced by a casting process wherein about 4% to about 7%, by weight, of magnesium is included in the aluminum matrix alloy to facilitate wetting of the reinforcing material and ready dispersal thereof with the matrix alloy while the alloy is completely molten and thereafter hot working the composite at a temperature between the liquidus and solidus temperatures of the aluminum alloy matrix. The matrix is characterized by a microstructure wherein fine precipitates appear in the vicinity of SiC particles or fibers, and by high hardness and strength without further heat treatment.
A method for making a composite material. Porous reinforcing material such as fiber material is charged into a container which has an opening; then substantially all of the atmospheric air in the container and in the interstices of the reinforcing material is replaced by substantially pure oxygen; and then molten matrix metal is admitted into the container through the opening so as to infiltrate into the interstices of the reinforcing material. During this infiltration the oxygen within the container and in these interstices is absorbed by an oxidization reaction, and thus substantially all the gas present within the interstices of the reinforcing material is disposed of, thus not hampering the good infiltration of the molten matrix metal into the reinforcing material. Thus a high quality composite material is formed. The oxidization reaction may either be with the molten matrix metal itself, or with a getter element provided within the container.
A ceramic-reinforced aluminum matrix composite is formed by contacting a molten aluminum-magnesium alloy with a permeable mass of ceramic material in the presence of a gas comprising from about 10 to 100% nitrogen, by volume, balance non-oxidizing gas, e.g., hydrogen or argon. Under these conditions, the molten alloy spontaneously infiltrates the ceramic mass under normal atmospheric pressures. A solid body of the alloy can be placed adjacent a permeable bedding of ceramic material, and brought to the molten state, preferably to at least about 700° C., in order to form the aluminum matrix composite by infiltration. In addition to magnesium, auxiliary alloying elements may be employed with aluminum. The resulting composite products may contain a discontinuous aluminum nitride phase in the aluminum matrix and/or an aluminum nitride external surface layer.
An aluminum metal matrix composite comprises an aluminum metal matrix embedding a second filter, such as a ceramic second filler, and is formed by contacting, for example, a molten aluminum metal with a permeable mass of second filler within a ceramic impervious mold formed by growing a polycrystalline oxidation reaction product into a first filler. By hermetically sealing the second filler within the mold with a body of molten aluminum metal, the latter spontaneously infiltrates the mass of second filler at moderate temperatures, e.g. about 900° C., without need of any other infiltration expedients. The molten mass containing the infiltrated ceramic filler is solidified to provide the metal matrix composite which may be recovered from the mold. Optionally, the solidification is carried out under bonding conditions including maintaining the solidifying material in direct contact with the ceramic mold, to provide the metal matrix composite joined to the mold, or a part thereof, as a structural component.
A method is disclosed for producing a reinforced composite material. A molten matrix metal is heated to a temperature substantially greater than the melting point of the matrix metal. The matrix metal is poured into a mold containing a mass of reinforcing material. The matrix metal is solidified.
A net shaped ceramic-reinforced aluminum matrix composite is produced by forming a permeable mass of ceramic material with a defined surface boundary having a barrier, and contacting a molten aluminum-magnesium alloy with the permeable mass of ceramic material in the presence of a gas comprising from about 10 to 100% nitrogen, by volume, balance nonoxidizing gas, e.g. hydrogen or argon. Under these conditions, the molten alloy spontaneously infiltrates the ceramic mass under normal atmospheric pressures until it reaches the barrier. A solid body of the alloy can be placed adjacent to a permeable bedding of ceramic material having a barrier, and brought to the molten state, preferably to at least about 700° C., in order to form the net shape aluminum matrix composite by spontaneous infiltration. In addition to magnesium, auxiliary alloying elements may be employed with aluminum. The resulting composite products may contain a discontinuous aluminum nitride phase in the aluminum matrix.
The present invention relates to the formaton of metal matrix composite bodies by a spontaneous infiltration technique, and novel metal matrix composite bodies produced according to the method. An ingot of matrix metal is surrounded by a permeable mass of filler matrial. An infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are also in communication with the filler material, at least at some point during the process, which permit the shaped ingot of matrix metal, when made molten, to spontaneously infiltrate the surrounding permeable mass of filler material. After the spontaneous infiltration, a metal matrix composite body is produced having therein a cavity which substantially corresponds in shape to the original ingot of matrix metal.
The present invention relates to modifying the properties of a metal matrix composite body by a post formation process treatment and/or a substantially contiguous modification treatment. The post formation process treatment may be applicable to a variety of metal matrix composite bodies produced by various techniques, and is particularly applicable to modifying the properties of a metal matrix composite body produced by a spontaneous infiltration technique. The substantially contiguous modification process may also be used primarily in conjunction with metal matrix composite bodies produced according to a spontaneous infiltration technique. Particularly, at least a portion of the matrix metal of the metal matrix composite body and/or the filler material of the metal matrix composite body is modified or altered during and/or after the formation process.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material is formed into a preform. An infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are also in communication with the preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the preform when the preform is placed into the molten matrix metal. A means for maintaining the preform at least partially below the surface of the molten matrix metal can also be utilized.
The present invention relates to forming a a metal matrix composite between at least two bodies having a similar or a different chemical composition, the metal matrix composite functioning as a bonding means which to bonds or fixes the bodies together. Particularly, a metal matrix composite is produced by a spontaneous infiltration technique by providing a filler material or preform with an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or and infiltrating atmosphere, which are in communication with the filler material or preform at least at some point during the process. Molten matrix metal then spontaneously infiltrates the filler material or preform, whereby the metal matrix composite serves to bond together two or more bodies.
The present invention relates to the formation of a metal matrix composite body by a spontaneous infiltration technique and thereafter thermo-forming the produced metal matrix composite body. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or a preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. After formation of the metal matrix composite body, the body is subjected to a thermo-forming technique such as rolling, extruding, die casting, pressing, etc.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies, and the metal matrix composite bodies produced according to the novel method. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material is formed into a preform by first forming a negative cavity in a matrix metal and thereafter placing said permeable mass of filler material into said cavity. An infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are also in communication with the filler material, at least at some point along the process, which permit the matrix metal, when made molten, to spontaneously infiltrate the permeable mass of filler material, which at some point during the processing, may become self-supporting.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming a metal matrix composite body, and products produced thereby. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material is formed into a preform, the preform having at least a portion thereof which contains a cavity. An infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are also in communication with the preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the preform when the preform is placed into molten matrix metal. An infiltrating atmosphere is provided in communication with the cavity in the preform for at least a portion of the process, and molten matrix metal is contacted with an exterior portion of the preform, such that molten matrix metal will spontaneously infiltrate the preform from an exterior surface thereof toward the cavity.
The present invention relates to the use of a gating means in combination with a spontaneous infiltration process to produce a metal matrix composite body. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material or a preform is spontaneously infiltrated by molten matrix metal to form a metal matrix composite body. A gating means is provided which controls or limits the areal contact between molten matrix metal and the filler material or preform. The use of a gating means provides for control of the amount of matrix metal which can contact the preform or filler material, which may result in less machining of a formed metal matrix composite body compared with a similar metal matrix composite body made without a gating means, moreover, the use of a gating means ameliorates the tendency of a formed metal matrix composite body to warp due to the contact between the formed composite body and matrix metal carcass.
The present invention relates to the formation of a metal matrix composite body by the spontaneous infiltration of a molten matrix metal into a three-dimensionally interconnected material. Moreover, the three-dimensionally interconnected material may contain filler material within at least a portion of its porosity. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material and/or a three-dimensionally interconnected material and/or a matrix metal at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the three-dimensionally interconnected material and any filler material contained within at least a portion of the porosity of the three-dimensionally interconnected material.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies and novel metal matrix composite bodies produced thereby. Particularly, a polycrystalline oxidation reaction product of a parent metal and an oxidant is first formed. The polycrystalline oxidation reaction product is thereafter comminuted into an appropriately sized filler material which can be placed into a suitable container or formed into a preform. The filler material or preform of comminuted polycrystalline oxidation reaction product is thereafter placed into contact with a matrix metal alloy in the presence of an infiltration enhancer, and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere, at least at some point during the process, whereupon the matrix metal alloy spontaneously infiltrates the filler material or preform. As a result of utilizing comminuted or crushed polycrystalline oxidation reaction product, enhanced infiltration (e.g., enhanced rate or amount) is achieved. Moreover, novel metal matrix composite bodies are produced.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies and the novel products produced therefrom. A negative shape or cavity, which is complementary to the desired metal matrix composite body to be produced, is first formed. The formed cavity is thereafter filled with a permeable mass of filler material. Molten matrix metal is then induced to spontaneously infiltrate the filled cavity. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are also in communication with the filler material, at least at some point during the process, which permits the matrix metal, when made molten, to spontaneously infiltrate the permeable mass of filler material, which at some point during the processing, may become self-supporting. In a preferred embodiment, cavities can be produced by a process which is similar to the so-called lost-wax process.
The present invention relates to the formation of a metal matrix composite body by a spontaneous infiltration technique. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or infiltration enhancer precursor can be positioned at least partially between or at an interface between a matrix metal and a filler material (or preform) which is to be infiltrated by molten matrix metal. Moreover, at least at some point during the process, an infiltrating atmosphere may be in communication with the filler material or preform and/or matrix metal.
A metal matrix composite is formed by contacting a molten matrix alloy with a permeable mass of filler material or preform in the presence of an infiltrating atmosphere. Under these conditions, the molten matrix alloy will spontaneously infiltrate the permeable mass of filler material or preform under normal atmospheric pressures. Once a desired amount of spontaneous infiltration has been achieved, or during the spontaneous infiltration step, the matrix metal which has infiltrated the permeable mass of filler material or preform is directionally solidified. This technique allows the production of spontaneously infiltrated metal matrix composites having improved microstructures and properties.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies and novel products produced by the method. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material or a preform has included therein at least some matrix metal powder. Moreover, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with the filler material or a preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. The presence of powdered matrix metal in the preform or filler material reduces the relative volume fraction of filler material to matrix metal.
The present invention relates to the formation of a macrocomposite body by spontaneously infiltrating a permeable mass of filler material or a preform with molten matrix metal and bonding the spontaneously infiltrated material to at least one second material such as a ceramic or ceramic containing body and/or a metal or metal containing body. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or infiltration enhancer precursor and/or infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or a preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. Moreover, prior to infiltration, the filler material or preform is placed into contact with at least a portion of a second material such that after infiltration of the filler material or preform, the infiltrated material is bonded to the second material, thereby forming a macrocomposite body.
The present invention relates to the use of a gating means in combination with a spontaneous infiltration process to produce a metal matrix composite body. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material or a preform is spontaneously infiltrated by molten matrix metal to form a metal matrix composite body. A gating means is provided which controls or limits the areal contact between molten matrix metal and the filler material or preform. The use of a gating means provides for control of the amount of matrix metal which can contact the preform or filler material, which may result in less machining of a formed metal composite body compared with a similar metal matrix composite body made without a gating mean. Moreover, the use of a gating means ameliorates the tendency of a formed metal matrix composite body to warp due to the contact between the formed composite body and matrix metal carcass.
A net shaped ceramic-reinforced aluminum matrix composite is formed by forming a permeable mass of ceramic material with a defined surface boundary having a barrier, and contracting a molten aluminum-magnesium alloy with the permeable mass of ceramic material in the presence of a gas comprising from about 10 to 100% nitrogen, by volume, balance nonoxidizing gas, e.g. hydrogen or argon. Under these conditions, the molten alloy spontaneously infiltrates the ceramic mass under normal atmospheric pressures until it reaches the barrier. A solid body of the alloy can be placed adjacent to a permeable bedding of ceramic material having a barrier, and brought to the molten state, preferably to at least about 700° C., in order to form the net shape aluminum matrix composite by infiltration. In addition to magnesium, auxiliary alloying elements may be employed with aluminum. The resulting composite products may contain a discontinuous aluminum nitride phase in the aluminum matrix.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material is formed into a preform. An infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are also in communication with the preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the preform when the preform is placed into the molten matrix metal. A means for maintaining the preform at least partially below the surface of the molten matrix metal can also be utilized.
The present invention relates to the formation of a macrocomposite body by spontaneously infiltrating a permeable mass of filler material or a preform with molten matrix metal and bonding the spontaneously infiltrated material to at least one second material such as a ceramic or ceramic containing body and/or a metal or metal containing body. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or infiltration enhancer precursor and/or infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or a preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. Moreover, prior to infiltration, the filler material or preform is placed into contact with at least a portion of a second material such that after infiltration of the filler material or preform, the infiltrated material is bonded to the second material, thereby forming a sealable electronic package.
A metal matrix composite is formed by contacting a molten matrix alloy with a permeable mass of filler material or preform in the presence of an infiltrating atmosphere. Under these conditions, the molten matrix alloy will spontaneously infiltrate the permeable mass of filler material or preform under normal atmospheric pressures. Once a desired amount of spontaneous infiltration has been achieved, or during the spontaneous infiltration step, the matrix metal which has infiltrated the permeable mass of filler material or preform is directionally solidified. The directionally solidified metal matrix composite may be heated to a temperature in excess of the liquidus temperature of the matrix metal and quenched. This technique allows the production of spontaneously infiltrated metal matrix composites having improved microstructures and properties.
The present invention relates to the formation of a metal matrix composite body by a spontaneous infiltration technique. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or infiltration enhancer precursor can be positioned at least partially between or at an interface between a matrix metal and a filler material (or preform) which is to be infiltrated by molten matrix metal. Moreover, at least at some point during the process, an infiltrating atmosphere may be in communication with the filler material or preform and/or matrix metal.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies and the novel products produced therefrom. A negative shape or cavity, which is complementary to the desired metal matrix composite body to be produced, is first formed. The formed cavity is thereafter filled with a permeable mass of filler material. Molten matrix metal is then induced to spontaneously infiltrate the filled cavity. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are also in communication with the filler material, at least at some point during the process, which permits the matrix metal, when made molten, to spontaneously infiltrate the permeable mass of filler material, which at some point during the processing, may become self-supporting. In a preferred embodiment, cavities can be produced by a process which is similar to the so-called lost-wax process.
The present invention relates to forming a metal matrix composite between at least two bodies having a similar or a different chemical composition, the metal matrix composite functioning as a bonding means which bond to or fixes the bodies together. Particularly, a metal matrix composite is produced by a spontaneous infiltration technique by providing a filler material or preform with an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or and infiltrating atmosphere, which are in communication with the filler material or preform at least at some point during the process. Molten matrix metal then spontaneously infiltrates the filler material or preform, whereby the metal matrix composite serves to bond together two or more bodies.
The present invention relates to the use of a gating means in combination with a spontaneous infiltration process to produce a metal matrix composite body. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material or a preform is spontaneously infiltrated by molten matrix metal to form a metal matrix composite body. A gating means is provided which controls or limits the areal contact between molten matrix metal and the filler material or preform. The use of a gating means provides for control of the amount of matrix metal which can contact the preform or filler material, which may result in less machining of a formed metal matrix composite body compared with a similar metal matrix composite body made without a gating mean. Moreover, the use of a gating means ameliorates the tendency of a formed metal matrix composite body to warp due to the contact between the formed composite body and matrix metal carcass.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming a metal matrix composite body. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material is formed into a preform, the preform having at least a portion thereof which contains a cavity. An infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are also in communication with the preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the preform when the preform is placed into molten matrix metal. An infiltrating atmosphere is provided in communication with the cavity in the preform for at least a portion of the process, and molten matrix metal is contacted with an exterior portion of the preform, such that molten matrix metal will spontaneously infiltrate the preform from an exterior surface thereof toward the cavity. The process can be performed in a continual manner.
A net shaped ceramic-reinforced aluminum matrix composite is formed by forming a permeable mass of ceramic material with a defined surface boundary having a barrier, and contacting a molten aluminum-magnesium alloy with the permeable mass of ceramic material in the presence of a gas comprising from about 10 to 100% nitrogen, by volume, balance nonoxidizing gas, e.g. hydrogen or argon. Under these conditions, the molten alloy spontaneously infiltrates the ceramic mass under normal atmospheric pressures until it reaches the barrier. A solid body of the alloy can be placed adjacent to a permeable bedding of ceramic material having a barrier, and brought to the molten state, preferably to at least about 700° C., in order to form the net shape aluminum matrix composite by infiltration. In addition to magnesium, auxiliary alloying elements may be employed with aluminum. The resulting composite products may contain a discontinuous aluminum nitride phase in the aluminum matrix.
The present invention relates to a novel process for forming a plurality of thin metal matrix composite bodies. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the plurality of filler materials or preforms. Such spontaneous infiltration occurs without the application of any pressure or vacuum and occurs in a single step. In an embodiment of the present invention, the filler material may be sprayed upon a thin sheet of matrix metal. Alternatively, the filler material may be shaped via tape casting, slip casting, etc. to provide a thin preform. In another embodiment of the present invention, a body of matrix metal may be coated with a filler material such that upon spontaneous infiltration a metal matrix composite body is produced which inversely replicates the configuration of the original body of matrix metal.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies and novel products produced by the method. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material or a preform is provided which has included therein at least two different matrix metal powders. Moreover, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with the filler material or preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal, upon contact with the filler material or preform, to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. The presence of powdered matrix metal in the preform or filler material reduces the relative volume fraction of filler material to matrix metal.
The present invention relates to modifying the properties of a metal matrix composite body by a post formation process modification treatment. The post formation process treatment may be applicable to a variety of metal matrix composite bodies produced by various techniques, and is particularly applicable to modifying the properties of a metal matrix composite body produced by a spontaneous infiltration technique. Particularly, at least a portion of the matrix metal of the metal matrix composite body and/or the filler material of the metal matrix composite body is modified or altered after the formation process. Preferably, the preform contains a second non-metal material, an infiltration enhancer of infiltration enhancer precursor, and an infiltration atmosphere.
A metal matrix composite is formed by contacting a molten matrix metal with a permeable mass of filler material or preform in the presence of an infiltrating atmosphere. Under these conditions, the molten matrix metal will spontaneously infiltrate the permeable mass of filler material or preform under normal atmospheric pressures. Once a desired amount of spontaneous infiltration has been achieved, or during the spontaneous infiltration step, the matrix metal which has infiltrated the permeable mass of filler material or preform is directionally solidified. The directionally solidified metal matrix composite may be heated to a temperature in excess of the liquidus temperature of the matrix metal and quenched. This technique allows the production of spontaneously infiltrated metal matrix composites having improved microstructures and properties.
The present invention relates to the formation of a metal matrix composite body by a spontaneous infiltration technique. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer or infiltration enhancer precursor can be positioned at least partially between or at an interface between a matrix metal and a filler material (or preform) which is to be infiltrated by molten matrix metal. Moreover, at least at some point during the process, an infiltrating atmosphere may be in communication with the filler material or preform or matrix metal.
The present invention relates to a novel process for forming metal matrix composite bodies by using a reactive barrier material. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer or an infiltration enhancer precursor or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or a preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform up to the reactive barrier material. Such spontaneous infiltration occurs without the requirement for the application of any pressure or vacuum. Accordingly, shaped metal matrix composite bodies can be produced having superior surface finish.
The present invention relates to a novel process for forming a filler material which can be used in various metal matrix composite formation processes for forming metal matrix composite bodies. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer or an infiltration enhancer precursor or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or a preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. Such spontaneous infiltration occurs without the requirement for the application of any pressure or vacuum. The amount of matrix metal provided is sufficient only to coat, to a desired thickness, substantially all of the filler material. The coated filler material is thereafter comminuted for use in any desired metal matrix composite formation process.
The present invention relates to a novel process for forming metal matrix composite bodies. Specifically, in a particularly preferred embodiment for making metal matrix composite bodies by a spontaneous infiltration technique, an infiltration enhancer or an infiltration enhancer precursor or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a rigidized filler material or a rigidized preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the rigidized filler material or riigidized preform. A structural refractory material which holds the preform is made by forming a first precursor to the supportive structural refractory material and subsequently causing the precursor to become a rigid supportive structural member. Such spontaneous infiltration occurs without the requirement for the application of any pressure or vacuum.
The present invention relates to a novel process for forming internal shapes in metal matrix composite bodies. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or a preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. Additionally, the filler material or preform may contain a mandrel which is capable of surviving the infiltration process, said mandrel being removed after infiltration has occurred. Such spontaneous infiltration occurs without the requirement for the application of any pressure or vacuum.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material is formed into a preform. An infiltration enhancer or an infiltration enhancer precursor or an infiltrating atmosphere are also in communication with the preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the preform when the preform is placed into the molten matrix metal. A means for maintaining the preform at least partially below the surface of the molten matrix metal can also be utilized. In a preferred embodiment a reservoir may be employed to supply a second metal which has a different composition from the first source of matrix metal. By using a reservoir metal which is different in composition then the first source of matrix metal, it is possible to tailor the properties of the metal within the metal matrix composite body to meet various operating requirements and thus tailor the properties of the metal matrix composite body itself.
A ceramic-reinforced aluminum matrix composite is formed by contacting a molten aluminum-magnesium alloy with a permeable mass of ceramic material in the presence of a gas comprising from about 10 to 100% nitrogen, by volume, balance non-oxidizing gas, e.g., hydrogen or argon. Under these conditions, the molten alloy spontaneously infiltrates the ceramic mass under normal atmospheric pressures. A solid body of the alloy can be placed adjacent a permeable bedding of ceramic material, and brought to the molten state, preferably to at least about 700° C., in order to form the aluminum matrix composite by infiltration. In addition to magnesium, auxiliary alloying elements may be employed with aluminum. The resulting composite products may contain a discontinuous aluminum nitride phase in the aluminum matrix and/or an aluminum nitride external surface layer.
A net shaped ceramic-reinforced aluminum matrix composite is provided by forming a permeable mass of ceramic material with a defined surface boundary having a barrier, and contacting a molten aluminum-magnesium alloy with the permeable mass of ceramic material in the presence of a gas comprising from about 10 to 100% nitrogen, by volume, balance nonoxidizing gas, e.g. hydrogen or argon. Under these conditions, the molten alloy spontaneously infiltrates the ceramic mass under normal atmospheric pressures until it reaches the barrier. A solid body of the alloy can be placed adjacent to a permeable bedding of ceramic material having a barrier, and brought to the molten state, preferably to at least about 700° C., in order to form the net shape aluminum matrix composite by spontaneous infiltration. In addition to magnesium, auxiliary alloying elements may be employed with aluminum. The resulting composite products may contain a discontinuous aluminum nitride phase in the aluminum matrix.
The present invention relates to a novel process for forming metal matrix composite bodies. Specifically, a metal which typically would not exhibit spontaneous infiltration properties under a given set of processing conditions can be induced to infiltrate a filler material or preform when combined or contacted with a matrix metal which does exhibit spontaneous infiltration properties. Stated more particularly, when an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or a preform, at least at some point during the process, and a metal which, under the process conditions, ordinarily would not exhibit spontaneous infiltration, is combined with (e.g., alloyed, mixed with and/or exposed to) a matrix metal which does exhibit spontaneous infiltration behavior under the same processing conditions, the combination of metals will spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. Such spontaneous infiltration occurs without the requirement for the application of any pressure or vacuum.
The present invention relates to a novel process for making a macrocomposite body. Specifically, a metal matrix composite body is first formed and thereafter, a ceramic body or a ceramic matrix composite body is caused to form from at least one surface of the already formed metal matrix composite body. The ceramic or ceramic composite body can be formed by, for example, changing from spontaneous infiltration conditions which permit a molten matrix metal to infiltrate a filler material or preform to conditions which favor the growth of a ceramic oxidation reaction product from the matrix metal (e.g., the matrix metal serves the dual role of a matrix metal and a parent metal for growth of oxidation reaction product). The growth of oxidation reaction product can occur from one or more surfaces of a metal matrix composite body and can be controlled to result in any desired shape. Moreover, the oxidation reaction product can be caused to grow directly into an atmosphere to form a ceramic body or can be caused to grow into an adjacently located filler material to form a ceramic matrix composite body. The oxidation reaction product can be formed substantially immediately after the metal matrix composite body is formed or may be formed at any point later in time.
The present invention relates to a novel process for forming metal matrix composite bodies by using a barrier material. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer or an infiltration enhancer precursor or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or a preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform up to the barrier material. Such spontaneous infiltration occurs without the requirement for the application of any pressure or vacuum. Accordingly, shaped metal matrix composite bodies can be produced having superior surface finish.
The present invention relates to the formation of a macrocomposite body for use as an electronic package or container. The macrocomposite body is formed by spontaneously infiltrating a permeable mass of filler material or a preform with molten matrix metal and bonding the spontaneously infiltrated material to at least one second material such as a ceramic or ceramic containing body or a metal or metal containing body. Moreover, prior to infiltration, the filler material or preform is placed into contact with at least a portion of a second material such that after infiltration of the filler material or preform by molten matrix metal, the infiltrated material is bonded to said second material, thereby forming a macrocomposite body. The macrocomposite body may then be coated by techniques according to the present invention to enhance its performance or bonding capabilities.
The present invention relates to a novel process for forming thin metal matrix composite bodies. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or preform, at least, at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. Such spontaneous infiltration occurs without the application of any pressure or vacuum. In an embodiment of the present invention, the filler material may be sprayed upon a thin sheet of matrix metal. Alternatively, the filler material may be shaped via tape casting, slip casting, etc. to provide a thin preform. In another embodiment of the present invention, a body of matrix metal may be coated with a filler material such that upon spontaneous infiltration a metal matrix composite body is produced which inversely replicates the configuration of the original body of matrix metal.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material is formed into a preform. An infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are also in communication with the preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the preform when the preform is placed into the molten matrix metal. A means for maintaining the preform at least partially below the surface of the molten matrix metal can also be utilized.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies and novel metal matrix composite bodies produced thereby. Particularly, a polycrystalline oxidation reaction product of a parent metal and an oxidant is first formed. The polycrystalline oxidation reaction product is thereafter comminuted into an appropriately sized filler material which can be placed into a suitable container or formed into a preform. The filler material or preform of comminuted polycrystalline oxidation reaction product is thereafter placed into contact with a matrix metal alloy in the presence of an infiltration enhancer, and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere, at least at some point during the process, whereupon the matrix metal alloy spontaneously infiltrates the filler material or preform. As a result of utilizing comminuted or crushed polycrystalline oxidation reaction product, enhanced infiltration (e.g., enhanced rate or amount) is achieved. Moreover, novel metal matrix composite bodies are produced.
The present invention relates to a novel process for forming thin metal matrix composite bodies. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. Such spontaneous infiltration occurs without the application of any pressure or vacuum. In an embodiment of the present invention, the filler material may be sprayed upon a thin sheet of matrix metal. Alternatively, the filler material may be shaped via tape casting, slip casting, etc. to provide a thin preform. In another embodiment of the present invention, a body of matrix metal may be coated with a filler material such that upon spontaneous infiltration a metal matrix composite body is produced which inversely replicates the configuration of the original body of matrix metal. In yet another embodiment of the present invention, a plurality of thin tape cast preforms which are segregated by a barrier material (e.g., graphite foil) may be infiltrated with a matrix metal during a single spontaneous infiltration process.
The present invention relates to the formation of a macrocomposite body by spontaneously infiltrating a permeable mass of filler material or a preform with molten matrix metal and bonding the spontaneously infiltrated material to at least one second material such as a ceramic or ceramic containing body and/or a metal or metal containing body. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or infiltration enhancer precursor and/or infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material or a preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. Moreover, prior to infiltration, the filler material or preform is placed into contact with at least a portion of a second material such that after infiltation of the filler material or preform, the infiltrated material is bonded to the second material, thereby forming a macrocomposite body.
The present invention relates to the formation of a metal matrix composite body by the spontaneous infiltration of a molten matrix metal into a three-dimensionally interconnected material. Moreover, the three-dimensionally interconnected material may contain filler material within at least a portion of its porosity. Particularly, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with a filler material and/or a three-dimensionally interconnected material and/or a matrix metal at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal to spontaneously infiltrate the three-dimensionally interconnected material and any filler material contained within at least a portion of the porosity of the three-dimensionally interconnected material.
The present invention relates to a novel method for forming metal matrix composite bodies and novel products produced by the method. Particularly, a permeable mass of filler material or a preform is provided which has included therein at least some matrix metal powder. Moreover, an infiltration enhancer and/or an infiltration enhancer precursor and/or an infiltrating atmosphere are in communication with the filler material or preform, at least at some point during the process, which permits molten matrix metal, upon contact with the filler material or preform, to spontaneously infiltrate the filler material or preform. The presence of powdered matrix metal in the preform or filler material reduces the relative volume fraction of filler material to matrix metal.
