A shock absorbent collar for a protective torso armor plate for human  bei made of expanded plastic material. The expanded plastic is crushable and, therefore, impact absorbing. The collar protects the neck, chin, and face or other portions of the head of the wearer of the armor plate in case of sudden deceleration of the body of the wearer of the armor plate, which would shift upwardly in such event and in the absence of the collar would strike the neck or chin or other parts of the head of the wearer with damaging force.
A garment suitable for military and/or police personnel comprises a jacket member constructed of fire retardant cloth, having front and back sections joined along shoulder covering parts, and at least one open side for donning the jacket with a flap extending from the back section partly around and securable to the front section. The jacket member has a plurality of integral external compartments receiving and retaining individual items such as survival kits of food, flares, radio, etc. A ballistic fragmentation protective member, preferably a removable fragmentation protective cloth, has a cover of waterproof material such as vinyl chloride, and is positioned within a pocket formed on the jacket member to cover a major portion of the front, or the front and back of the torso of the wearer. A removable antiballistic armor unit, as of ceramic, is held in a separate pocket means on the jacket member which positions the armor unit across the front of the torso of the wearer, and a separate such unit across the back of the wearer where rear protection is needed. The pockets may include individual fasteners through which the fragmentation protective cloth and/or the armor units can be removed by the wearer when they are not needed.
A protective face shield which consists of layers of high impact resilient plastic maintained in spaced relationship to each other by a metal frame so that a dead air space is provided between the layers incorporating various combinations of wall thickness and spacings employed to adapt the face guard to a specific application. The face shield is pivotally mounted in a unique manner on a rigid helmet and provides protection from .38 caliber and smaller bullets fired from hand guns at close range.
A helmet has an integral hood which fits over the neck, and part of the shoulders of a person wearing the helmet. A transparent, double-walled face shield is pivotally attached to the hood to protect the face of the wearer of the helmet.
A bulletproof, shatterproof and shock-resistant guard to afford complete protection of the head, face, neck and upper torso of the human body. The guard incorporates an integral, transparent domelike top which is supported not by the head and neck but by the shoulders of the wearer thereby allowing unhampered head movements and unrestricted vision. As a defensive one-piece encasement for the head, neck and upper torso, the guard can be used by soldiers, sailors, policemen, firemen, civil defense workers, guards, and others engaged in hazardous occupations. In a modified embodiment the guard comprises a supplemental transparent safety hood of essentially the same construction as the basic protective piece but adapted for use by the industrial worker for protection against the impact hazards that might be encountered in a dangerous environment. The safety hood, like the basic protective piece, rests on the shoulders of the wearer, is transparent, and allows free head movement and unrestricted vision.
Method of industrial manufacture of garments from at least one indefinite web of supple sheet material, wherein tie elements forming waist bands or neck attachments are laid on the initial web in perpendicular relationship to their normal direction of use and are provided with lines of gluing and folding through 45.degree. enabling them to be turned over into their direction of use.
A method of continuously preforming tapered sleeves for use in the manufacture of garments. Rows of transversely spaced adhesive strips are successively applied to a continuous web with each strip extending at an angle to the longitudinal axis of the web. The web is then folded along longitudinal lines passing through the leading and trailing points of each strip with the longitudinal line through the leading point of each strip being folded over the longitudinal line through the trailing point. The side portions of the web are then folded inwardly and secured together to form a flat tubular web shape. The web is then cut to sleeve length along successive transverse lines passing through the leading points of each row of adhesive strips with the row of adhesive strips of each length creating a tapered section in the sleeve.
Apparatus for an automated garment production line for transferring to a moving web of material a pair of precut garment sleeves from stacks of sleeves on opposite sides of the web. A mechanism serving each stack employs a vacuum manifold, having a series of vacuum cups, located on a frame pivotally mounted to move between a sleeve pick-up position over the vertical stack of pre-cut sleeves to a deposit position over the moving web of garment material. As the frame swings, a drive mechanism causes the vacuum head to rotate, flipping the loose end of the sleeve across the web. The frame stops short of contact with the web holding the shoulder portion of the sleeve slightly off of the web until it registers with a line of adhesive carried by the web. The vacuum is then released and air pressure is introduced to blow the sleeve off the vacuum cups and onto the adhesive area on the moving web.
Leather strips of varying lengths but uniform width are adhesively secured together in end-to-end succession and wound into coil form so that apparel belts can be made by cutting belts blanks of identical or of different lengths from the coiled material as it is uncoiled, according to the particular size of the belts to be made therefrom, without waste of material except of the short innermost end of the coil.
A method of applying hair in which individual suture loops are sewn into the scalp and wefts of hair are anchored between or along the sutures. The ends of each suture are secured together by intertwining the end portions and sewing a thin thread through and around the end portions. The suture is a thread made from a synthetic polymer which is impregnated or coated with an inert substance such polytetrafluoroethylene or a silicone. Alternatively, at least the portion of the suture which is embedded in the scalp and is made of any flexible material, is encased in a sleeve in which the suture may slide without irritating the subcutaneous area of the scalp.
A method for implanting natural or synthetic fibers directly into the skin, particularly the scalp. The method is effected by the use of a concentric dual needle arrangement that comprises a first, outer needle and a second, inner needle slideably mounted within the outer needle. The fibrous material to be implanted is threaded within the inner needle, the latter then being "loaded" or mounted within the bore of the outer needle. The two needles are then inserted simultaneously into the scalp. The outer needle is withdrawn first to expose the fibrous strands to the tissue. The inner needle is next withdrawn leaving the fibrous strands implanted in the tissue. The method is highly effective, safe and requires a minimum of manipulative steps.
A method for enabling a balding person to avoid the appearance of baldness comprising the steps of locating sutures at strategic locations on the person's scalp, securing a scalp net to said sutures with said scalp net having synthetic fibres which simulate hair secured to the portions of the net which cover balding areas on the scalp. The scalp net has openings where it covers a person's natural hair which extends through said openings.
Prosthetic cardiac valves for disposition in the heart and the aorta for controlling the pulsatile flow of blood in and from the heart, wherein positive opening and closing guiding action is effected and a minimum of turbulence of the blood across the valve occurs when the valve is open.
A method for making a heart valve of the type having a frame with a ring member adapted for attaching a sewing ring and having a seat for a valve element and either one or two extending arms, each arm having smaller rings on their extremities and being aligned with the center axis of the main ring. The valve element for an aorta valve has protrusions for extending through the smaller rings to either side of main ring and a portion adapted for sitting in the seat which is a section of a sphere less than a hemisphere on one side and a truncated cone on the other. The mitral valve has a generally lenticular shaped member with a T-shaped protrusion extending therefrom for passing through a smaller ring. Several embodiments of the method are provided to produce a high-quality valve utilizing commercially available tubing in one embodiment, sheet material for stamping in another embodiment and bar stock in a third embodiment.
Removably located within an elongated epithelium-lined tract (tunnel) surgically formed in the subcutaneous layer of the scalp is the elongated subdermal portion of a scalp anchor. Mounted on at least one end of the subdermal member is a flange or tab, closely overlying the subjacent surface of the scalp, the flange being attachable to an overlying hairpiece. A plurality of such anchors securely yet removably retains the hairpiece in the desired position on the scalp.
The hair piece attachment device of the present invention is comprised of an anchor piece which is surgically imbedded in the scalp and an attachment piece which is removably attached to the anchor piece by latching means. The hair piece is connected to the attachment piece. A plurality of the anchor pieces are surgically imbedded in the scalp and a plurality of attachment pieces are attached to the hair piece such that when the attachment pieces are removably attached to the anchor pieces the hair piece will be secured and cosmetically aligned on the individual's head.
An artificial breast for use following a mastectomy which includes extensions or flaps positionable between the wearer and the wearer's brassiere. A front body piece is woven from thread in a convex configuration forming a hollow interior. A mass of tangled threads are loosely positioned within the hollow interior and are secured therein by a flat back piece woven from thread and attached to the rear edge portion of the front body piece. A pair of flaps attached together and mounted to the front body piece and flat back piece extend at least partially around the wearer's side. A third flap attached to the front body piece extends downwardly therefrom between the wearer's chest and brassiere.
A surgically removed breast is replaced by a prosthesis which also has a foldable tab extending under the arm. The prosthesis comprises a soft cloth case filled with polyester fiber fluff, overlapping panels at the back providing access for insertion or removal of fluff. Snaps hold the prosthesis in place in a brassiere cup.
An artificial breast adapted to be worn inside a brassiere by women who have had their breast removed is provided. The breast is provided with a special concave back and specially arranged front cover which makes the breast fit tightly against the chest and gives it a very natural looking appearance.
The disclosure relates to a sanitary closet for vehicles or the like. Separate reservoirs are provided for the waste and the flushing fluid. During the flushing cycle, a shutter at the bowl outlet is closed to divert the flushing fluid from the waste reservoir to a collection sump spaced around and below the waste outlet of the bowl. A sump pump returns the fluid to the fluid reservoir. The operation of the sump and shutter is regulated by a sequence control timer. The timer is driven by a spring motor and is restrained by a dash pot. The timing interval may be varied by changing the size of a bypass orifice provided in the dash pot.
A flushing unit for a chemical closet comprises a reservoir for flushing fluid and means for circulation of flushing fluid between the reservoir and a lavatory pan or bowl of a chemical closet. Provision is made so that the return conduit from the lavatory pan to the reservoir will not admit at any time solid material deposited in the lavatory pan. Passage of liquid deposited in the lavatory pan therefrom to the reservoir is generally prevented by ensuring that the return conduit is incapable of allowing the free flow therethrough of liquid except during transfer of flushing fluid to the lavatory pan or chamber. The return conduit can take the form either of a narrow bore tube through which liquid can only be passed under suction, or can be of wider bore having a suitable valve therein.
An actuating mechanism for conserving water when flushing a toilet tank; the mechanism consisting of a plastic tube connected to the rubber ball valve of the tank, the tube extending upward above the water surface of the tank and having an adjustable air valve on its upper end, so to meter an amount of air being released from the rubber ball valve, thus controlling the length of time that the rubber ball valve would float before re-seating itself and close the water drain pipe leading from the tank to the toilet.
A compact, low cost, efficient gas fired incinerator toilet has a chassis within which is suspended an insulated firebox with which is associated an afterburner passage leading to a mixing chamber upstream relative to an exhaust fan and duct. A toilet seat is mounted on a cabinet top separably carried by the top of the chassis for ready access into the unit. Various operating and safety structures and controls are provided.
Human waste is disposed of by incineration including burning solids, vaporizing liquids and converting any residual gases into elemental substantially odorless form. Discharge temperature of the treated gases is reduced to an acceptable level. Practice of the method is exemplified in an incineration toilet utilizing a "soft" gas flame providing not only incinerating and vaporizing heat within a firebox but also gas consuming heat in a combustion passage leading from the firebox. Circulation of the products of combustion is promoted by an exhaust fan which draws them across a cooling air gap into a settling chamber before discharge from the apparatus. Various operating and safety structures and controls are provided.
An improvement shower structure that may be used as a replacement for a conventional shower head or installed initially as an integral portion of a bathroom. The shower structure permits the user to selectively direct a uniform spray of water over a desired portion of the body, and is particularly adapted for the use of women and elderly persons who may now take a shower without getting their hair and head wet. Also, the shower structure is adapted for being formed as an integral part of a wall structure to direct a spray of water over the trunk portions of a user.
A water distributing device for use in a shower, bath or the like in which a vertical pipe with spray apertures is surrounded by a moveable, water-tight sleeve having predetermined cut out areas which provide for turning on and off the spray as a function of relative vertical height by rotating the sleeve a predetermined angular distance.
A piece of furniture adapted to be transformed in a bed comprising a frame having sides, an upper surface and a facing surface. The facing surface comprises a first lower panel fixed to the sides and a second upper panel connected to the lower panel by a hinge. A third panel is connected to the upper panel by means of a hinge and may be pivoted downwardly so as to be used as a table. The upper panel may also be pivoted downwardly around its hinge and be supported by the said first and third panels to constitute the base of a bed. Springs are foreseen to facilitate the lifting of the upper panel in its raised position.
A combination bunk beds, divan and double bed of metal construction, and on which bed springs or inner spring mattresses can be used, the device being adaptable for construction in a house, car or travel trailer and wherein the device is adjustable in position so to serve the above different purposes.
A couch which by day serves as a seat for several people and can be converted into an upper and lower bed by night. The back of the couch is constructed with a portion which telescopes into the seat and is concealed therein when the couch is used in the daytime as a seat. The back of the couch is mounted on telescopic support members permitting the back to be elevated, the telescopic members being releasably locked in the elevated position, when so raised, the back is then swung out to a horizontal position. A pair of rigid posts are then placed in position under the front edge of the raised back. The back thus becomes an upper bed having a width substantially or approximately the same as a conventional single bed.
An improved support for a sofa-bed of the type in which the backrest is rotated forward into a horizontal position to form a bed. One or more support members are pivotally attached along the backrest between its supporting legs to provide additional central support for the backrest when it is in the bed position. The support members have pivot points along the axis of rotation of the backrest.
In fitted bedclothes, a closable split is formed in a marginal portion of the bedclothes, spaced from the corners. A strip extends from the bedclothes adjacent one side of the split for drawing the sides of the split toward each other and adjusting the fit of the bedclothes on a mattress. The sides of the split are retained in position by a piece of a first material having a plurality of flexible hooks which engages a piece of a second material having a plurality of hook-engageable loops. One of the pieces of material is secured to the strip and the other is secured to the bedclothes. In an alternate embodiment of the invention, the strip and the pieces of material are replaced by a zipper that is secured by elastic material to the bedclothes adjacent the sides of the split.
A furniture covering arrangement in which covering material is in two sections adapted to fit on opposite sides of a chair, sofa or the like, with the two sections overlapping at the center of the back where they are held together and to the frame by pressure-engageable tension-releasable fasteners, with additional fasteners holding the edges of the material sections to other portions of the frame, including the inner corners of the arms, where they are accessible through cutouts at the forward and rearward surfaces of the seat back, a removable rail at the forward edge of the seat portion carrying a removable skirt which extends downwardly along the front face of the frame.
An extremely resilient and readily compressible pillow body is formed by providing a plurality of layers of bonded synthetic fibers. Preferably, the pillow is formed by repeatedly layering one continuous porous layer or batt of bonded synthetic fibers. The fiber layer has a thickness of between 1/4 of an inch and 1 inch, and, depending upon the size of pillow desired, preferably form four to about 32 layers may be employed. By repeatedly layering a single porous layer of non-allergenic lightweight bonded synthetic fibers, air pockets are formed at the ends of each of the layers which allow air to be freely expelled from each of said layers in response to compressive loads, while also allowing air to rapidly re-enter each of said layers individually upon removal of said compressive load. Therefore, a highly resilient and readily compressible pillow body is provided.
A batt of a cross-lapped fibrous web of continuous filaments, the batt having an internal wad of said web in randomly crumpled condition.
A compact multiple hand tool which includes substantially every hand tool found in a complete tool box. A pair of elongated members are pivotally connected adjacent their upper ends, which are provided with jaws usable as pliers and also as an adjustable wrench. The lower end of one elongated member forms a knife which is covered by a slidably mounted sheath carrying a file. The sheath is removable from the elongated member. The sheath is also adapted to slidably engage a projection formed on the other elongated member to lock the elongated members in closed position and to provide a progressively tighter gripping of the jaws due to the action of the inclined plane.
Water insoluble disperse dyes for aromatic polyester textile material are made by the reaction of an aldehyde intermediate derived from an .alpha.-(N-alkylanilino)m-toluenesulfonamide, typified by .alpha.-(N-ethylanilino)-m-toluenesulfonamide, with a nitrile containing an active methylene group, such as malonoitrile. This class of dyes, when appropriately dispersed, produces bright greenish-yellow dyeings on aromatic polyester fabrics with excellent substantivity, outstanding sublimation fastness, and excellent fastness to light. The dyes are applied to polyesters, such as polyethylene terephthalate, by carrier dyeing, pressure dyeing and thermofixation methods.
Two arms are mounted on an amphibian vehicle to pivot simultaneously in a vertical plane between inoperative and operative positions, a wheel or other support member used by the vehicle being movable with the arms between a retracted and an extended position. A link is journaled on and rotatable with the arms to both synchronize their movement and act as a wedge or truss strut which restrains the arms against rearward movement under the influence of vertical pressure on the extended wheel.During movement toward their operative position, the arms pass through an intermediate position in which the longitudinal axes of one of the arms is aligned with that of the link, thus creating a "dead center" condition. There is provided a spring activated mechanism which automatically moves the arms and link through this intermediate position and into their operative positions.
A new and improved integrated boat-trailer-camper apparatus, movable on land and on water, with longer service life, easier entry into and removal from the water, improved handling and maneuverability while in the water, and improved means for support when used on land.
In a cross-recessed screw forming punching tool having four ridges substantially orthogonally intersected, each ridge is circumferentially inclined at a predetermined angle to a respective radial main center axis.
Method of making a self-locking internally threaded article such as a nut including a locking body or patch of normally hard, tough, resilient thermoplastic resin adhered to the threaded surface. The article is mounted on a support with the openings at the ends substantially free. A heater raises the temperature of the threaded portion to above the softening point of the resin and a powder jet and guide device directs a stream of fine particles of the resin entrained in a gaseous jet into one of the openings toward a selected area of the threaded surface. Suction is applied adjacent the other opening of the article to draw in air around the guide and through the threaded hole in the article. Resin particles contacing the threaded surface are caught by softening them and causing them to adhere to the threaded surface by heat from the threaded surface to build up a deposit of resin which is fused by heat from the surface to form a continuous plastic body and then hardened by cooling.
A finely powdered thermoplastic material is placed in a fluidizing chamber and is dispensed on a preheated threaded fastener element in controlled amounts by controlled air pulsations which pass through a venturi tube arrangement. The powdered material is deposited on the threaded surface in a predetermined amount and is fused thereto to provide a locking patch of solidified thermoplastic material.
A finely powdered thermoplastic material is placed in a fluidizing chamber and is dispensed on a preheated threaded fastener element in controlled amounts by controlled air pulsations which pass through a venturi tube arrangement. The powdered material is deposited on the threaded surface in a predetermined amount and is fused thereto to provide a locking patch of solidified thermoplastic material.
The semiautomatic line for producing footwear with the bottom attached by the cementing, vulcanizing or direct-moulding method, incorporates a number of separate sections each of which comprises one machine that makes part of the line, and a device to control the operation of the machine.
A shoemaking apparatus with a plurality of stations having instrumentalities for performing separate operations, including one for positioning an upper on a last, and a carrier guided for movement to present the last and positioned upper thereon, in succession, to the operating stations and having devices for clamping the positioned upper to the last and on the carrier, during movement of the carrier from station to station, and also during operation of the operating instrumentalities at each station.
A safety lock mechanism for a dockboard to prevent lowering of the ramp and eliminating the possibility of gaining access to a building through the space between the lowered ramp and a closed overhead door. The dockboard includes a ramp hinged at its rear edge to the loading dock and a lip is hinged to the front edge of the ramp and is movable between a downwardly hanging, pendant position and an extended position. Cross traffic legs are pivoted to the under surface of the front edge of the ramp and engage fixed legs on the supporting structure of the dockboard to support the ramp in either a dock level position or in a series of below dock level positions. The cross traffic legs are coupled to the lip so that on movement of the lip from the pendant to the extended position, the cross traffic legs will be retracted. The safety lock mechanism includes a flange or stop which is pivotally connected to each fixed leg, and when the cross traffic leg is supported on the fixed leg the flange extends vertically to the rear of the cross traffic leg, to thereby prevent the cross traffic leg from being retracted when the ramp is at a dock level position. In the event that the ramp is just slightly above dock level when a truck pulls away from a dock, the lip will fall to its pendant position and the cross traffic legs will pivot forwardly into engagement with the stop, thereby pivoting the stop forwardly and enabling the cross traffic legs to engage the fixed legs.
A device for automatically erasing a blackboard wherein a carriage is mounted for longitudinal movement on the blackboard and has a motor mounted thereon that is mechanically interconnected to a drive assembly for producing the movement of the carriage and also is interconnected to brush means for the rotation thereof during movement of the carriage in an erasing operation.
An automatic chalkboard eraser consists of a body which spans the board and has bearings running along the top and bottom thereof, a plurality of erasers rotatably mounted in the body and bearing against the board, an electric motor carried by the body, and drive means connecting the motor, the erasers, and traverse means. Manual and automatic switches provide for operation of the device in either direction within limits.
An adjustable clamp assembly for securing a broom block to a handle member including: an upper clamp member, a lower clamp member, and fastener members connecting the upper and lower clamp members. The upper clamp member includes a depending flange portion having an extension member and adjustment means for incrementally adjusting the vertical position of the extension member with respect to the depending flange portion wherein the adjustment means includes a plurality of apertures disposed in the depending portion and defining at least two spaced positions and tab members disposed on the extension member for selective mechanical interlocking engagement with the apertures in one of the positions.
A tool for the cleaning of debris from elevated house gutters while manually operated by a person standing on the ground, the tool comprised of a substantially flat blade having a bottom surface contoured to fit the interior of the gutter in a manner to scrape along the bottom thereof, the blade having an arm projecting outwardly therefrom and pivotally connected to a bracket mounted on the end of a longitudinally elongated handle such that the blade is adjustable to various angles relative to the handle for ease of inserting the blade into the gutter and moving the same along the gutter to scrape the bottom thereof free of debris.
A device for holding a rug against movement upon an underlying carpet comprises two elastically interconnected substantially flat strips, one strip having pins extending from a face adapted to engage the underlying carpet and the other strip having pins extending from a face adapted to engage the superposed rug.
A tackless carpet stripping for attaching carpet or the like to a floor in a room wherein the stripping is fastened to the floor along the peripherial edge of the floor adjacent the walls of the room. The tackless carpet stripping is a one-piece integrally molded structure having an elongated member with its lower surface positioned on the floor and fastened thereto by means of nails or the like. The upper surface of the elongated member has a plurality of integral sharp-ending holding members projecting toward the wall at an angle inclined with respect to the upper surface of the elongated member. In the preferred embodiment the stripping is fabricated from a plastic material, such as polystyrene.
A refrigerator cabinet has each of the pair of front wheels or rollers supported on a front frame member at opposite ends thereof for vertical adjustment. Each of the wheels is rotatably supported in a housing having guide flanges on each side for cooperation with tracks which are formed between the front frame member and a track member to cause the housing to move only vertically when a screw is rotated. The screw is connected to the top of the housing for rotation relative thereto and threaded in a horizontal flange of the front frame member.
An easily removable clamp for securing both sides of a threaded connection to prevent relative rotation of one threaded part to the other.
A furniture castor or glide is disclosed having a pivoted body part designed to mount a castor rolling element and selectively fitted with a plain glide cap or with a cap having an aperture permitting the castor rolling element to project therethrough to provide a floor-engaging rolling surface which constitutes a sole load bearing surface on a hard smooth floor but which embeds into a soft floor surface, such as deep pile carpet, and shares the load-bearing function with a smooth convex undersurface of said cap, the cap and the underside of said body part having complementary abutting load-transmitting surface portions disposed inwards of the periphery of said cap.
A vacuum assembly adapted for operative association with an open upper-ended container; the assembly including a housing having an inlet and an outlet, an electrically energized vacuum motor within the housing, means cooperable with the container for supporting the housing adjacent the upper end thereof and adapted to sealingly engage the upper end of the container so as to define a generally air tight chamber therewithin, and first and second handle means on the assembly and the container movable to and from a position generally coincident with one another, whereby to permit simultaneous manual grasping of the first and second handle means to enable concomitant transport of the container and assembly as a composite structure.
The wet rigidity of corrugated paperboard is improved by impregnating the medium with a slow-curing glyoxal-based resin in the presence of a catalyst and, optionally, an extender.
A self-centering cafe door hinge assembly with automatic centering means is disclosed. The disclosure includes an upper, one-piece molded hinge with a pivotable hinge pin and a lower two-piece hinge including a lifting member and a pivotable hinge pin. The upper and lower hinges are adapted to be mounted on a door jam and interconnected to the top and bottom edges of one-half of a cafe type door by means of the hinge pins. The hinge pin of the upper hinge is rotatable about its longitudinal axis and also along said axis while the same is true with regard to the lower hinge pin. The lower hinge also includes a lifting member and a cam surface so that upon movement of the door from its centered position to an open position, for example, the lifting member will ride on the cam surface and lift the entire assembly in a vertical direction until the open position is achieved. When the door is released, the force of gravity and the weight of the door will cause the lifting member to slide back down the cam means to a centered position. Built-in stop-slam plates are also included.
A refrigerator cabinet having an access opening and a door for closing the access opening is provided with a hinge construction assuring the self closing of the door from a substantially open position and the positive sealing of the door gasket with the cabinet base as the door approaches its closed position. In accordance with the preferred embodiment of the invention, the hinge construction also includes means for positioning the door in a predetermined open position as for example at an angle of 90.degree. with the face of the cabinet.
A gravity hinge set includes upper and lower hinges providing three directions of adjustment with the load bearing hinge being provided with insertable ramps for converting the hanger set from one in which the door can remain in an opened position when fully opened to one in which the door always and automatically returns to a closed position.
An apparatus for breaking up and dispersing tightly baled fibers having high attractive static forces therein comprises a receiver channel having at its lower end thereof a plurality of toothed rollers and and aeration means below the toothed rollers consisting of two or more air or gas jets tangentially located on a compound cyclonic surface.
Apparatus for removing trash from carded fibers includes a plate portion conforming generally to card clothing on the main cylinder, means for positioning the plate portion in superposed spaced relation to the card clothing on the main cylinder between the means feeding fiber to the main cylinder and the doffer, and a passageway defined at least in part by the plate portion permitting removal of trash therethrough responsive to centrifugal force imparted to the trash by the main cylinder but retaining fibers for delivery to the doffer.
This invention relates to the carding of textile fibers and is directed particularly to tapering the worker roll in spiral carding machines, thus providing a means for eliminating fiber damage.
A cover for a carding cylinder, is characterized by a series of fiber conveying channels adjacent the cylinder surface. The channels collectively take the form of an interrupted screw thread and function to move fiber across and around the cylinder in a helical path.
Fibre is fed to a drafting zone having a series of paired drafting devices, such as fallers, porcupine rolls or toothed rolls, by a pair of supply rollers; and sliver formed by such fibres is drawn from the drafting zone by drawing rolls. A guide screw is operable to move a frame carrying the entire supply and drafting assembly to vary the distance between the final pair of drafting devices and the drawing rolls to accommodate processing of fibre batches having different average staple fibre lengths. The frame has an upper portion carrying the upper element of each drafting pair, which is swingable by operation of a guide screw about a pivot relative to the lower frame element which carries the lower drafting elements and the pair of supply rollers. Such relative movement of the upper and lower drafting elements permits accommodation of fibres of different quantity, bulk or curliness or variation of the degree of draft. The belts driving the supply rolls and drafting elements are tensioned by resiliently-mounted belt tension rollers movable in response to relative adjustment of the upper and lower frame portions.
The invention relates to a lever device for tightening and securing together two end portions of strapping. The device comprises a pair of longitudinal side members interconnected in spaced parallel relationship. An arm arranged adjacent one end of the device is attached at its one end to one of the side members and has its other free end disposed adjacent the other side member so as to be engageable by a looped one end portion of the strapping passed thereover. A first cross-member interconnects the side members at that side of said arm adjacent said one end of the device, a pair of second cross-members interconnect said side members at that side of said arm remote from said one end of the device and are engageable by the other end portion of the strapping, and a pair of projections extend in opposed relationship from respective side members to define a gap at or adjacent the other end of the device. In use the device is engaged by the two end portions of the strapping and the position of the device is reversed so that the two end portions of the strapping are brought together and overlapped to tension the strapping and secure the two end portions together.
A fastening clip for securing articles together, the clip including releasably connected male and female components. The male component comprises a pin and the female component comprises a retainer for releasably clamping the pin. When joined, the pin cannot be separated from the retainer except by a specially formed tool which is insertable in the retainer. Manipulation of the tool serves to condition the retainer for removal of the pin. In a modified form of the invention, the retainer is of magnetic material, and an actuating tool including an electromagnet is employed to actuate the retainer and permit removal of the pin.
A device having an elongated member, a head having a passage for receiving one end of the member, and means coupling the head with the opposite end of the member with the latter being movable into and out of the head. The head has improved means to releasably lock the end of the member therein, such means including a pair of relatively shiftable members normally in engagement with each other and movable apart to present an access passage therebetween. A number of embodiments of the device are disclosed.
There is disclosed a safety pin having a keeper thereon for captivating the pin in a closed configuration. The keeper is constructed to receive the point through a one-way entry and to release the point through a one-way exit. Means are provided to cam the pin laterally following its passage through the one-way exit.
A self-locking separable seam assembly comprising a pair of identical extruded semi-rigid strips of plastic material having a tubular portion tear-drop shape in cross section along one lateral edge of the mounting web thereof. One sidewall of the tubular portion is slotted to permit these overlapped edges to be pressed into interlocking engagement with one edge of each slot closely spaced from the exterior of the tubular portion of the other strip and cooperating therewith to lock the closed seam against disassembly.
A self-locking separable seam assembly comprising a pair of strips of identical J-shape in cross section extruded from semirigid thermoplastic material featuring a thick semirigid return bend portion bordered by a relatively thin low-height lip positioned to interfere with the corresponding lip of the other strip as the strips are pulled crosswise of one another into interlocking engagement. The seam separates as the two strips are forced past one another in a direction opposite to the assembly operation.
A method of making bags and the bags resulting therefrom wherein the bags have a top edge and first and second side edges and interlocking rib and groove element at the top edge with a slider straddling the top edge and the slider having a back and downwardly projecting sides with the sides being closer together at a closing end of the slider which extends toward the first edge of the bag and being wider apart at the opening end of the slider which extends toward the second edge of the bag and with a finger between the sides at the opening end and the bag having heat seals joining the rib and groove elements and the heat seal being wider at the first edge than the second edge and being of a width at least equal to the length of the slider from its closing end to the finger so that the slider will remain fully on the bag at the end of its travel when opening the bag.
A separable slide fastener including a slider movable to control opening and closing of the slide fastener having a movable locking prong extending within a Y-shaped channel therein at a position laterally spaced from the longitudinal center of the slider, and a separating end stop including an insert member adapted to be received in a retainer member which has a detent notch therein for receiving the locking prong when the slider is moved to an assembly position adjacent the separating end stop such that the slider is held in the assembly position to facilitate assembly of the insert member with the retainer member through the slider.
A pair of glass plates of a gaseous discharge display or memory device are held precisely spaced by two sets of identically sized overlapping spacer rods. The rods crisscross orthogonally within a sealed gas-containing chamber to create gaps through which the gas can flow without significant restriction between areas of the chamber separated by said rods. Sealing rods of glass having a softening temperature lower than that of the spacer rods are disposed like a border around the spacer rods and are of significantly greater diameter or height than the combined height of the two superposed sets of spacer rods. Initially the upper plate is supported solely by sealing rods; but upon heating of the assemblage, the sealing rod glass reflows, and the upper plate settles until it contacts the upper set of spacer rods; whereupon the assembly is cooled and the sealing rods fuse with the plates to create an impermeable chamber between the now precisely spaced plates.
There is disclosed a multiple discharge gas display/memory panel of the type in which filamentary or capillary size gas tubes or gas continuums are assembled and formed as a monolayer to form the gas discharge panel.
A gas ionization display device is provided which comprises a woven wire mesh having noncontacting intersecting wires in hermetically sealed dielectric panels. An inert ionizable gas is encapsulated between the hermetically sealed panels. The device is made by sandwiching the woven wire mesh between two glass panels, with the wires extending beyond the edges of the panels, and sealing the panels, in an atmosphere of an ionizing gas, e.g. neon or argon.
In a method for sealing a gaseous display and/or memory device, an unfused, low-softening point glass rod sealant, arranged in a picture frame pattern, together with high-softening point glass spacing rods are positioned between a pair of aligned flat glass plates, and the resulting assembly is placed in an oven enclosure. The assembly is then heated above the softening point of the glass rod sealant which reflows and fuses the plates to establish a gas-filled envelope. As the sealing material softens, the upper plate settles u;on the spacing rods to thus establish a predetermined and uniform spacing within the envelope.
A method of forming a wound electrical capacitor containing a plurality of windings of which at least one is a synthetic polymeric film, comprising depositing an electrostatic charge on a surface of the film, and winding the electrostatically charged film together with the other windings of the capacitor at a linear speed of at least 1.5 metres per second, the magnitude of the deposited electrostatic charge being such that a wound capacitor having substantially planar end faces is formed.
A tool carrying head for a machine tool which comprises at least two interchangeable tool carrying units so that the tools can be changed or adjusted in one unit while the tools in the other unit are capable of carrying out a machining operation.The tool carrying units are slidably mounted in a horizontal plane on spaced guide rails from an inoperative position to an operative position. In the operative position the chosen tool carrying unit is engageable by an actuating device and is movable by the device downwardly in a vertical plane into the machining position.
An automatic spindle transfer machine of the type known as boring, tapping, drilling, reaming, turning or milling machine, is provided with a removable spindle toolholder. A conveyor or transfer mechanism is used to convey to and away from the work station the worked and unworked parts. Suitable pallets for different toolholders are provided which enable the transfer mechanism to remove a spindle toolholder from the machine and to substitute a new toolholder suitable for another operation. The organization of several production lines using this toolholder removing technique is described.
This invention relates to a machine tool and, more particularly, to apparatus for use in a manufacturing plant having in storage a number of tool modules which can be attached to and operated by a spindle, the particular module being selected in accordance with the character of a particular workpiece presented to the apparatus.
A printing cylinder for particularly flexo-printing machines and indirect photogravure printing machines, in which either end of the sleeve is provided with an adjusting mechanism which is in engagement with the shaft. The sleeve is mounted with such clearance on the shaft that during rotation, the shaft cannot come into contact with the internal surface of the sleeve. Preferably each adjusting mechanism consists of three adjusting screws. Preferably the sleeve consists of an inner tubular cylinder of steel or aluminium and an outer tubular cylinder of foamed polyurethane. The printing cylinder produces a sharp imprint of high quality at high peripheral speeds, e.g., 200 meters/minute of the printing cylinder.
A printout drum in which a metal tubular member carrying a plurality of characters on its outside surface has a centrally positioned shaft which is rigidly fastened to the tubular member by means of a hardenable resinous filler material filling at least a portion of the tubular member.
This disclosure relates to a device for passing webs through rolls to remove or squeeze liquid from the webs. The rolls are made with a covering of a thin layer of a synthetic material. For example, a roll having a 1 to 5 mm layer of polyurethane is useful for squeezing and dewatering textile webs.
A method of making an anti-friction bearing assembly for rotatively supporting a load for rotation about the bearing axis, and in particular a novel method of splitting the annular outer race member of the bearing assembly so that it can be temporarily circumferentially expanded to permit assembly of anti-friction bearing elements into the raceways of the bearing. Creation of the crack, or split, in the initially solid, continuous outer race member is facilitated by providing a stress raiser at a location on the inner periphery of the member. Such a stress raiser may be provided by various techniques, one of which is by provinding a radial passage through the member. When a cracking force is applied to the member, this stress raiser encourages propagation of a very clean crack.
An engine has preformed timing numerals on the block end wall but without the radial line indicia which are to correspond to the numerals and be read with respect to a pulley mark during manual timing. The radial indicia are marked on the engine in the manner which reduces the probability of error with respect to top dead center of Cylinder No. 1 (TDC) as follows:A notch is formed in the pulley at a known angle with respect to the timing mark. A notch sensor and an engine block marking tool are mounted on a common carriage, spaced apart by the same angle so that when the sensor is opposite the notch, the zero line in the marker is opposite the pulley mark. The crankshaft is rotated at a measured speed by an external source and a sensor picks up each arrival of TDC while at the same time the notch sensor picks up each arrival of the pulley notch. The angle between these two impulses causes the carriage to be angularly adjusted until the impulses coincide, at which time the tool marks the radial indicia adjacent the numerals.
An elongated bar that engages the engine crankshaft for rotation therewith has a pad for contacting a pan rail of the engine block when the number one piston of the engine is at its top dead center position. A pin slidable in the bar then is extended to position a timing plate on the engine block. Tightening the timing plate in this position establishes accurately the location of the plate relative to the number one piston.
This application discloses a system or installation for testing automobile engines on a production basis to check or reveal the timing angle of each engine and to adjust said angle automatically in the process of the test to a predetermined standard or value. The application discloses further the instrumentation of a single test stand, adapted to perform such function, the manner in which a plurality of individual stands are combined with a conveyor automatically serving such stands to deliver the test engines to individual stands for tests, in the process of which tests a number of test operations are automatically performed in a predetermined sequence with the tested engines returned to the conveyor for delivery to the unloading stations. The application discloses further the manner in which a computer is combined with individual stands and with the conveyor to control the sequence of operations in individual stands and in the entire system to perform the predetermined tests as a part of production operations in an automobile plant.
A method is described for making inserts used in aircooled turbine blades. A length of tubing is first selectively reduced in wall thickness to form a thick walled lower portion. This tubular element is then collapsed to an air foil shape with the thick walled portions in contiguous relation. An end cap is secured to the outer, thin walled portion of the tubular element. Lower corner portions of the collapsed tube are cut away to form cooling air entrances. A hole is formed in the collapsed thick walled portions to receive a pin which retains the insert on the turbine blade. Impingement air discharge holes are drilled in the thin walled portion of the insert thus formed.
A turbine blade with convection-cooling or screen-cooling which is capable of manufacture in small sizes and consists of two hollow blade halves provided with axial internal ribs, of which at least one rib of one hollow blade half extends beyond the profile center plane into the other hollow blade half and is connected thereat with a corresponding rib extension.
A hollow cooled gas turbine blade is made by forming an insert with a hollow airfoil and a hollow root portion and with lateral cooling air passages extending through the wall of the airfoil and positioning the insert in a hollow main blade having an airfoil portion and a notch in the root to receive the root portion of the insert with both root portions having aligned serrations on opposite surfaces for supporting the blade and the insert in a turbine disk.
Resilient elements are provided for the mounting of a heat exchanger core between structurally joined inlet and outlet ducts.
A U-tube heat exchanger so designed that gaskets between the tube-plate carrying the tube bundle and the chambers through which the heat exchange fluids pass are accessible and replaceable without withdrawing the tube bundle.
A conveyor system for transporting electrical wire leads to a terminal press having the terminal applicator enclosed within a safety shield, the system including an endless chain conveyor having a number of clamp assemblies and being mounted on a pair of sprocket wheels for transferring the wire leads from a load position to a position in register with the terminal applicator under the shield. A wire lead register is provided at the load position and a step-by-step precision drive mechanism accurately locates the pre-registered wire leads in the terminal applicator.
An endless chain having alternate pairs of inner and outer side bars moves in an oblong path around spaced sprocket wheels. Pairs of relatively swingable clamping jaws for electrical wire leads or the like are mounted at intervals on the chain and are nested between opposite side bars and associated hinge bushings thereof. Outwardly extending gripping arms of the jaws are spring biased toward each other and are temporarily swung apart into wire receiving and wire releasing positions by actuating fingers which project inward of the oblong path of chain travel and are engaged by cams at the sprocket wheels.
An assembly device for assembling the components of a wound clip applicator consisting of a housing with a closed base and upper, open end into which has to be loaded a spring and a stack of clips, and forceps arms for locking the clips in place, e.g., as in U.S. Pat. No. 3,775,826. The device consists of a support for the housing, a guideway for receiving the components to be loaded, and a plunger which can travel along the guideway and press the components into the housing. Manual or automatic operation is envisaged.
This application discloses apparatus for applying spaced clips to a filament and severing the filament between the clips so as to provide clips secured on the free ends of the severed filament. The apparatus is disclosed in the context of a method of suturing skin wounds wherein a suture is drawn through an edge of the wound and the clip applicator applies the spaced clips and severs the suture so as to provide one clip holding the suture at the edge of the wound and another clip to the thread so that it may be used to start the next suture.
A device for making memory storage matrices comprising a wire tensioning means for Y drive wires provided with individual weights for each pair of the Y axis drive wires, each weight taking the form of a plate and having a recess disposed in the proximity to the upper edge of the weight which accommodates a pulley gripping the middle of a Y axis drive wire with cores strung at both of its ends, making it possible to increase the supply of core-stringing the wires, which considerably improves the uniformity of wire tensioning and provides for a more reliable checking of the electrical characteristics of the cores during the threading thereof.
A tool for cutting and stripping an insulated wire, and for wrapping a portion of the wire on a terminal. This is accomplished with the convenience of a side loading tool having a unique wire retaining finger which retains the wire during wrapping and allows the stripped insulation to be ejected after wrapping. A reciprocating sleeve cooperates with a rotary bit to capture and partially strip an insulated wire. The wire is dressed into an axial slot in both the bit and the sleeve by a unique dressing collar. The wire is depressed further and retained in the rotary bit slot by the retaining finger which closes the slot in the sleeve after dressing. Operation of the tool cuts off excess wire and withdraws the wire from remaining insulation as it is wrapped on the terminal.
A coil transferring tool provides a plurality of circumferentially spaced rods with a plurality of openings therebetween for receiving and retaining coils of electric wire from a coil forming machine to be transferred to a coil inserting apparatus for placement within a dynamoelectric machine stator. Certain rods are stationary with respect to a supporting member for receiving certain coils while other rods are movable to various extended positions for receiving additional axially spaced coils of different size from the coil forming apparatus. End members are provided for each rod which mate with and mask a plurality of wedge inserting openings in the inserting apparatus to protect the coils of wire as they are being transferred and further to align the coil retaining openings of the coil transferring tool with the coil receiving openings in the coil inserting apparatus.
Apparatus including circularly arranged transfer bars movable to protrude axially from the front end of a former to automatically transfer wound coils from the former to mounting fingers of a device which inserts the wound coils in the stator grooves. A control device regulates feeding of wire to the former to form the coils in a manner which facilitates subsequent transfer of the coils from the former.
Apparatus for developing electrical coil groups formed of a number of coils in a coil group-accommodating member for ultimate transfer into selected slots of a magnetic core. The coil group-accommodating member is supported adjacent a non-collapsible, longitudinally movable coil form in position to receive the coil group. The coils in each coil group are developed by winding turns of a given coil on the non-collapsible form and concurrently moving some of the turns from the form into the accommodating member where the individual coil groups are finally developed. The non-collapsible coil form is periodically moved longitudinally to produce coils of differing spans during the development of each coil group.
Prewound coils are placed into stator slots of a dynamoelectric machine by an insertion apparatus which has a plurality of fixed blades arranged in a circle within the inside diameter of the stator. The blades are spaced to provide blade gaps corresponding in position to the stator slots, and a piston driven stripper operating within the circle of blades inserts the coils through the gaps and into the stator slots. The stripper carries movable blades that alternate with the fixed blades, and the blade gaps are off-center between the movable and fixed blades. The movable blades are removably attached to the stripper.
A machine for applying expandable ring members, such as garter springs, into the groove of a standard lip seal is disclosed, wherein the spring is expanded over the downwardly facing larger end of a cone-shaped pick-up member, then carried thereby to a station where the seal is waiting, whereupon the spring is forcibly ejected or stripped from the pick-up member onto the seal and into the groove.
A hand actuated swaging device for securing a metallic fitting to an end of a hose has a one-piece cast frame with an integral die support. A ball screw and ball nut assembly is supported by the frame. The screw carries a pusher which presses a fitting into a swaging die without rotation with the screw.
An apparatus is provided for fastening a fitting to the end of a hose having a ball nut and ball screw carrying a pusher means for pressing a fitting and hose assembly into a swaging die, the pusher means comprising a bearing which transfers the force of the rotating screw to the non-rotating pusher means.
The disclosure relates to a de-reeler for unwinding a coiled strip of frangibly interconnected pierce nuts from a reel or spool for subsequent sequential installation of the pierce nuts in a panel by shearing the frangible connectors. The de-reeler includes a work support surface, a frame on which a reel having a strip of pierce nuts coiled thereon is rotatably mounted, and a tension roller for absorbing forces from the unwinding of the strip of pierce nuts from the reel. A first guide freely moves transversely of the path of unwinding the strip to follow the unwinding and to prevent binding of the strip. A second guide, mounted on the work support surface, receives the strip of nuts from the first guide and steers or directs the strip of pierce nuts toward the installation head. A channel or track may be provided to guide the strip of nuts from the first guide, through the second guide, to the installation head.
This disclosure relates to a preoriented fastener system which is particularly suitable for piercing fasteners and the like which require high speed feeding systems and which must be oriented prior to securement. The method disclosed herein includes forming, as by rolling, a continuous metal strip having a cross section conforming to the cross section of the desired fastener. The strip is then chopped into separate fasteners and a threaded aperture is formed in each fastener. The fasteners are then reassembled into a strip form by orienting the fasteners into serial alignment corresponding to the continuous metal strip and joined by readily frangible connector means, such as a pair of wires. The strip may then be coiled and delivered to the installation station.The disclosed fastener includes a pair of parallel retainer grooves adapted to receive a pair of retaining rods or wires which secure the fasteners in the preoriented strip form. The disclosed embodiment of the fastener is a pierce nut, which includes a generally rectangular body portion having a piercing face and a pair of flanges at the opposite face; one flange extending from each end of the nut. The rod retaining grooves are generally perpendicular to the opposite sides of the nut and located between the flanges and the axis of the threaded aperture. In the disclosed embodiment, the rods are inserted in the retaining grooves and the fastener adjacent the grooves is deformed to retain the rods in the grooves.
The disclosure relates to an installation head apparatus, particularly suitable for securing a piercing fastener in a panel. The disclosed installation head includes a reciprocating plunger and a guide housing having a passage which receives the plunger and a plurality of pierce nuts in vertically stacked relation. The preferred embodiment of the guide housing provides an interference fit at the pierce nut corners to retain the nuts in the guide passage and explosion channels at the open end of the pierce nut passage which, in the event a pierce nut is fractured during the installation, receives the pierce nut fragments, guides the fragments away from the passage and prevents damage to the pierce nuts remaining in the passage.
A device for assembling and disassembling a shaft and a member tightly mounted on the shaft, as by a key, press fit, etc. The device of the invention has been called a "jackscrew" because it may be used to apply a force to one object to separate it from a second object, e.g., a fan rotor from a shaft. Another suitable name would be press-and-pusher, or press-pusher, as the same device may be used to effect a press fit of a rotor on a shaft, and later to push the rotor from the shaft.It consists essentially of an elongated nut having interior threads and receiving a bolt or screw having complementary exterior threads. The threaded length of the nut is preferably somewhat greater than the body or threaded portion of the screw, to insure that the nut engages the end of the rotor while the screw engages the shaft. Each of the screw and nut has flats on its exterior surface for engagement by a wrench, and the head of the screw includes means to engage a shaft received in a central longitudinal opening extending through both screw and nut, to releasably lock the screw to the shaft for common movement therewith. The shaft-engaging means may be jaws having teeth which are brought into engagement with the shaft, the jaws being mounted on pins extending transverely through the screw head. When the two members are threaded together and are slid down the shaft until the nut member butts against the mounted member or rotor to be loosened, the jaws are manipulated so that their teeth engage the shaft, after which the device is operated by the use of wrenches to disengage the screw from the nut. Since the shaft will usually be secured against sliding out of its bearings, the result is a force exerted through the nut on the rotor, pushing it away from the screw of the device. This may cause either an assembly or disassembly of rotor and shaft, depending on the structure used in mounting the rotor. Usually a rotor pressed on from one direction may be pushed loose from the other direction by switching the device of the invention from one end of the rotor to the other.A refinement provides means for utilizing the device when the member to be loosened is mounted on a shaft having the appropriate end unavailable, e.g., when a spider mounted on a shaft is to be loosened without removing the shaft from its end bearings. This refinement is a matter of providing openings in both screw and nut extending radially from the central opening therethrough and for the full length of each member. The width of the slot is made at least equal to the diameter of the central opening, so that the pair of members or jackscrew device may be mounted on the shaft by a transverse movement through said slots.
A tool for removing molding strips from around the windshield of an automobile by releasing the fasteners which attach the molding strips to the frame of the automobile. The tool includes a handle and an L-shaped member having first and second sections which lie in substantially perpendicular planes. The second section includes a working edge which is tapered so that when the tool is moved laterally in the direction of the axis of the molding strips, the tapered working edge will engage and force the fasteners away from the frame to disengage the fasteners and the molding strips so that the molding strips may be removed.
A special purpose tool is disclosed for use in removing metal moldings from around the windshield or back light of automobiles in which the molding is secured by means of metal spring fasteners. The tool comprises an elongated metal blade terminating at its outer end in a tip portion curved to form an arcuate fulcrum, the outermost end of the tip being tapered so that it may be inserted between the molding and the automobile metal work. The tip portion forms approximately a right angle with the plane of the blade, and is sufficiently long to extend past the edge of the molding when the tool is in place, whereby upward movement of the handle of the tool will cause the tip to pivot against the metal work of the automobile, with the end of the tip pressing against the fastener and releasing the molding.
To prepare a multi-conductor jacketed cable for splicing it is necessary to remove the jacket for some distance from the end of the cable and to cut the conductors so that they extend for different distances from the end of the jacket. This is done by first gripping the cable by a clamp some distance from its end. Longitudinally spaced pairs of cutters are then brought together to cut through the conductors and through the jacket to the conductors with the cut through the jackets being spaced toward the clamp from the end of the cable a greater distance than the cut through the conductors. The clamp is then moved away from the cutters so as to pull the main portion of the cable with it while leaving the portions of the jacket and conductors between the cutters and the end of the cable behind.
Disclosed is an apparatus for stripping the insulation from wires in a ribbon cable. The wires at the end of the cable are positioned between a pair of jaws. The jaws include orienting means for accurately locating the individual wire conductors so that upon closing of the jaws pairs of cutters sever the insulation on the wires without severing the metal conductors. An additional cutter trims the conductor ends. Following closing of the jaws, the cable is pulled from between the cutters to strip the insulation from the trimmed ends of the conductors. Subsequently terminals may be attached to the stripped and trimmed ribbon cable conductors.
To strip the filler materials from the end of electrical cable insulations in a manner capable of using high-speed production processes, the cable is suitably held adjacent the end to be stripped. The filler materials are subjected to treatment with water, steam, moist air or high pressure dry air. The limp and loose filler material is blown back over the cable by means of air pressure or steam, and the limp filler strips are suitably sheared. A production apparatus for implementing this method is also disclosed. The method and apparatus are also designed for use on appliance power cords.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn dressing the end of an electrical cable prior to connection to a connector or terminal, the jute, paper, rayon, nylon or similar filler strips used to provide insulating layers must be removed neatly. At present, in most cases the cable is rotated to loosen the spirally twisted filler materials and the materials are manually cut by a cutting pliers or other suitable hand tool.This generally accepted method is cheap and may be accomplished without the need for machinery or apparatus of any kind (other than the hand tools previously mentioned). On this basis, the method is quite satisfactory for occasional cable dressings or feed repair. However, when a number of cables must be stripped for attachment to mass produced electrical appliances and terminal boards, the manual method is too slow, time-consuming and expensive.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention provides a production process and a machine for implementing the removal of twisted strand or strip filler insulation from electrical cables simply and efficiently. In the machine, the cable is clamped peripherally to form a ring outwardly of which the cable is to be stripped. The free end of the cable insulation is subjected to a bath or jet flow of steam or moist air to loosen the filler and remove stiffening additives and inherent stiffness of the material. The loosened material ends are blown back over the clamping ring and can be severed by means of a suitable knife edge.It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a new process for efficient removal of cable insulation from a cable end to be stripped and dressed.It is a further object of the invention to provide a process capable of production techniques for removing insulation from a cable.It is a still further object of the invention to provide a machine for implementing the process of removing cable insulation.It is a still further object to provide a machine which holds a cable, causes the insulation to be loosened and maintained in a position readily severing the insulation.
Apparatus for cutting through insulation around an electrical conductor from opposite sides simultaneously to within very close to the conductor, and then stripping the insulation off the conductor. The apparatus is especially suited to sever the insulation on flat, multi-lead cables formed of a plurality of individual conductors in side-by-side relationship surrounded by insulation and to remove a portion of the insulation from the conductors. Special mounting and adjusting means insure that the edges of the two opposing blades will remain precisely parallel as they cut the insulation to the exact depth for which they have been set.
A method of brazing comprises coating at least part of at least one surface in the vicinity of a brazing operation, which surface is in danger of having the products of the brazing operation deposited thereon and which is to be protected from contamination from the products, with at least one layer of a composition comprising a mixture of an organophilic cation-modified clay and a volatile organic vehicle. Substantially all of the organic vehicle is removed from the coating before the brazing operation is effected. The composition may also contain a non-volatile organic additive and a non-volatile refractory oxide additive.
A process for fabricating small geometry semiconductor devices wherein an active region or regions are formed in a semiconductive layer and metalization patterns are formed on the surface thereof, while a resist pattern used to define the geometry of these regions and patterns is left temporarily in place between metal and semiconductor. Then, the resist is lifted off the surface of the oxide located between the metal and the semiconductive layer and whose geometry it controlled carrying with it the metalization lying on the resist surface and leaving very narrow strips of metalization in contact with the active regions.
The specification describes an improved barrier layer device which utilizes an oxide guard ring around the barrier layer. An insulating guard ring is shown to be superior to the PN junction guard ring of the prior art. Manufacturing methods for forming oxide guard rings are also discussed. These involve forming the oxide layer by exposure to an oxygen plasma.
A semiconductor device characterized in that an insulation layer of SiO.sub.2, SiO.sub.2 -P.sub.2 O.sub.5, Si.sub.3 N.sub.4 or the like is deposited on a GaAs substrate through a mixed crystal layer of a ternary system comprising a III.sub.a group element (such as Al and In) or a V.sub.a group element (such as P and Sb), Ga and As. The semiconductor device is characterized in that, even when an impurity such as Zn is selectively diffused into the substrate through the mixed crystal layer, it is possible to prevent the impurity from being anomalously diffused along the boundary between the GaAs substrate and the insulation layer and to obtain a stabilized surface of the GaAs substrate.
A method of manufacturing a device for converting electric oscillations into acoustic vibrations and vice versa, preferably a microphone, in which method first the drive system is rigidly secured to a support and then the magnetic and non-magnetic diaphragms are mounted in place, the latter diaphragm being secured to an axial cylindrical guide member. The guide member may form part of the magnetic diaphragm or be the rim of the support. In the first case the guide member is in the form of a disk or a pin.
PN junctions are formed in a P type body of mercury cadmium telluride by heating an indium body to form hot indium, which is then deposited on a surface of the P type body. The hot indium is believed to cause localized heating of the P type body which is sufficient for the formation of an alloy junction, but insufficient for the complete displacement of mercury within the alloy junction.
A method of permanently polarizing a vibratile film of an electrostatic transducer wherein an unpolarized film having a vibratile electrode on one side is disposed in a housing opposite a stationary electrode. A saturation polarizing voltage is applied across the vibratile and stationary electrodes to cause a ferroelectric phenomenon due to absorbed surface charges to occur in the vibratile film thereby permanently polarizing the vibratile film.
A thin film electret with excellent surface charge properties is produced by placing a thin polymer film between two electrodes together with a dielectric plate and by applying a voltage of about 30 keV across the resulting sandwich of elements for about 1 minute. The process is carried out at room temperature and at atmospheric pressure. By using an auxiliary dielectric plate that is much thicker than the film and has the proper resistivity, a high voltage drop can be applied across the film without a resulting destructive breakdown. Charge-densities of up to 1.5 .times. 10.sup.-.sup.6 C/cm.sup.2, which are greater by a factor of 3 than those previously reported, are produced.
A process for making a rotor assembly for a permanent magnet generator. The rotor assembly comprises a ferromagnetic hub and a ring-shaped cobalt and rare earth alloy magnet which is mounted on the hub. The process for making a rotor assembly includes applying to a hub a coating of inert material having a melting point above the sintering temperature of the cobalt alloy magnet before pressing and sintering the cobalt alloy onto the ferromagnetic hub.
A process for preparing novel sintered cobalt-rare earth intermetallic products which can be magnetized to form permanent magnets having stable improved magnetic properties. A particulate mixture is formed of a base CoR alloy and an additive CoR alloy, where R is a rare earth metal. The base CoR alloy is one which, at sintering temperature, exists as a solid Co.sub.5 R intermetallic single phase. The additive CoR alloy is richer in rare earth metal than the base CoR alloy, and at sintering temperature is solid. The base and additive alloys, in particulate form, are each used in an amount to form a mixture which has a cobalt and rare earth metal content substantially corresponding to that of the final desired sintered product. The mixture is pressed into compacts and sintered to the desired sintered product phase composition and density. At sintering temperature, the final sintered product has a phase composition lying outside the Co.sub.5 R single phase on the rare earth richer side. Specifically, the final sintered product contains a major amount of the Co.sub.5 R solid intermetallic phase and up to about 35 percent by weight of the product of a second solid CoR intermetallic phase which is richer in rare earth content than the Co.sub.5 R phase.
A process for producing a cylindrical rotor for a DC motor. A flexible insulative film is provided having a number of mutually insulated regularly spaced parallel conductors on one surface thereof, the conductors extending generally parallel to opposite longitudinal edges of the film. The film, which may be conveniently provided in sheet or rolled strip form, is cut along two parallel lines intersecting the longitudinal edges at an acute angle to provide a parallelogram shaped section in which the conductors terminate flush with the cut edges of the parallelogram. The parallelogram is folded back on itself with the conductors on the outer surface to obtain a trapezoidal folded sheet with the conductor ends lying on a single edge of the trapezoid. The trapezoidal folded sheet is rolled to obtain a cylinder, and the ends of corresponding conductors joined by soldering operation to produce the finished rotor. A modified process contemplates dispensing with the folding operation, and forming the trapezoidal sheet from a plurality of parallelograms; the length of the individual parallelograms being stepwise increased by means of changing the angle at which the parallelograms are cut from the film.
A printed circuit armature wherein the conductors are printed on one face of an insulated support member, and which member is adapted to be folded into opposing leaf portions and then rolled into a cylinder whereby the conductors are arranged on the inner and outer surfaces of the cylinder.
A method of making ferrite matrices comprises the steps of threading a plurality of ferrite cores, arranged into stacks, about at least one wire, the number of the cores about the wire being equal to the number of the lines in a matrix to be made; arranging the stacks into a row in which the number of the stacks equals the number of the wires in the direction of one coordinate of the matrix to be made; separating one core from preferably each one of the stacks; arranging the separated ferrite cores in a plane intersecting the wires; winding an additional wire into a helix; rotating the helix and forwarding the same; threading the additional wire wound into this helix in the direction of the other coordinate of the matrix to be made, so that the leading end of the helix passes in succession through all the ferrite cores arranged in the said plane, whereby at least one core is received about at least one turn of the helix; straightening the additional wire, whereby the ferrite cores received thereabout become positioned at the intersections of the wires, each core being indexed in a desired angular position. The invention can be employed for making ferrite matrices with any desired arrangement of the cores at the intersections of the wires, as well as for making ferrite cubes in the form of carpets, plaits, frameless memory devices of practically unlimited capacity, with cores of any size, including the tiniest ones.
The outer turn of a precut laminated induction core is provided with a crimp lock to enable such turn to be locked to form a stacking ring or sleeve such that the other cut turns may be reassembled and formed within such crimp locked outer turn without welding or banding of such outer turn.
An improved coil for use such as a degaussing coil in color television receivers. The coil is formed in a novel manner by causing the winding of the coil wires to form the annular bobbin from a strip of flexible channel material. The strip is maintained in an annular configuration by the wire causing its reception in an annular groove defined by a pair of axially spaceable arbor portions. The arbor portions further define means for holding the end of the wire upon initiation of the coil-forming operation. The bobbin is preferably formed of a thermoplastic material suitable to be sealed by radio frequency energy permitting the legs of the bobbin channel to be secured together about the coil. The bobbin is discontinuously annular and a portion of the coil may bridge the gap between the opposite ends of the bobbin. Connector portions of the wire are brought out to externally of the bobbin, at least one connector portion being brought out through the gap. Improved means are provided for delivering the radio frequency sealing energy to the bobbin.
In an electric can opener, there is provided a handle with a cutter which may be readily attached or removed. On finishing the opening of a can, the handle is automatically displaced to switch open the supply source so that the motor stops. A push button of a switch for driving the motor can be readily and securely assembled with the can opener housing. A can pushing spring is provided so that the rotation torque for starting a can rotating roller is small. Moreover, taking apart and assembling of the electric can opener may be easily and securely done.
An electrically powered can opener has a cutter wheel carrying hand leverpivotally attached to its forward upright frame by an elongate pinassembly. The frame and various parts of the can opener include a springbiased movable latch which engages a portion of the pin assembly toretain same in its operative environment. This latch is enclosed by anopen front box-like casing which has an exteriorly accessible push buttonlocated on the casing and engaging a portion of the movable latch. Thepush button has a position which when moved thereto pivots the movablelatch out of contact with said pin assembly thereby allowing the handlever to be removed from the can opener frame.
An electrically powered can opener has a cutter wheel carrying hand leverpivotally attached to its forward upright frame by an elongate pinassembly. The frame has a latch plate fixedly attached to the forwardsurface thereof and located in a plane parallel to the forward framesurface for operation with a latch, same being attached to and extendingfrom a portion of the hand lever pin assembly. The latch and latch plateengage but cooperate to permit the pivotal movement of said hand leverwithin its operative environment toward and away from the frame mountedrotative can feed wheel. At the same time removal of the hand lever fromthe can opener frame is precluded by the engagement of the two latchmembers. Pivotal movement of the hand lever past the normal operatingpositions will cause the latch to be disengaged from the latch plate andthe hand lever-pin assembly combination may be removed from the canopener frame and reassembled by an appropriate sliding movement of thehand lever with respect to the frame.
A can opener is provided on its lever arm with an arcuate keyhole-shaped slot and the housing has a headed pin passing through the slot, the head keeping the lever arm against the housing until the opening and wide part of the keyhole align when the arm is raised in non-use, whereupon the arm can be removed.
A drive assembly for an electric razor of the type having a motor and a reciprocatively driven blade assembly comprises an actuator member mechanically coupled to the blade assembly. An eccentric drive cam rotatably driven by the motor engages a drive slot provided in the actuator member to reciprocatively drive the actuator member and the blade assembly. Relief slots are provided in the actuator member on either side of the drive slot to render the walls of the drive slot flexible to accommodate dimensional variations in the drive slot or drive cam resulting from wear or normal production tolerances in these elements.
The specific disclosure provides a shaving unit having a spacer which includes a pair of spaced forwardly extending projections. A bottom razor blade is connected to the underside of the spacer with its cutting edge positioned beneath the projections, and a top razor blade is connected to the upperside of the spacer with its cutting edge positioned above the projections and rearwardly of the cutting edge of the bottom blade.
The specific disclosure provides a disposable bonded blade cartridge having a pair of single edge blades tandemly mounted and vertically spaced apart by a spacer. The blades and the spacer are permanently bonded in the cartridge, and the spacer has a plurality of channels for providing flow paths for shaving residue from between the cutting edges of the tandemly mounted blades rearwardly between the blades and out the rear end of the cartridge. The cartridge comprises an upper cap portion and a lower blade seat portion. The lower blade is positioned against vertically rising stops extending from the front part of the blade seat portion. The spacer is also positioned against the stops of the blade seat portion, and the upper blade is positioned against vertically rising stops of the forward and outward portions of the spacer. The cap portion has a plurality of posts extending downwardly through the blades, spacer and blade seat portion which are deformed at the lower ends thereof to bond the components of the cartridge together. A T-shaped channel is formed in the lower side of the blade seat portion for sliding engagement with outwardly extending flanges formed at the top end of a holder.
A shaving system comprises a leading blade member having a cutting edge and a following blade member having a cutting edge. The cutting edges are supported in spaced parallel relation to one another by structure which extends along substantially the entire lengths of the leading and following blade members and a guard structure is disposed forwardly of the leading cutting edge. The guard structure is disposed relative to the leading cutting edge to define a leading edge tangent angle in the range of 20.degree.-32.degree. and a span (S.sub.L) in the range of 0.030-0.080 inch, the following cutting edge is rearwardly offset from the leading cutting edge to define a span (S.sub.F) in the range of 0.030-0.080 inch, and each cutting edge has an exposure in the range of from -0.002 inch to +0.004 inch.
A shaving head for use in a dry-shaving apparatus of the type comprising a thin circular shear foil and a rotating blade carrier which is mounted beneath the shear foil and carries a plurality of blades mounted in slots, the cutting edge of each blade which co-operates with the shear foil extending substantially in a radial direction, whilst the blades are each individually displaceable in the associated slot and also slightly tiltable, roughly in the plane of the slot. Each blade so cooperates with a part of the rotating blade carrier, which part supplies the centripetal force which compensates for the centrifugal force which acts on the blade, that when the blade is tilted from its neutral position the centrifugal force and the said centripetal force exert a restoring torque on the blade so that this will always be in a stable equilibrium. With a view to manufacturing and assembling tolerances the blade surface more remote from the axis of rotation preferably is convexly curved and cooperates with a straight wall of the associated slot, which wall extends parallel to the axis of rotation of the blade carrier.
The invention relates to a shaving head for a dry-shaving apparatus comprising a circular shear plate and a cutter member which co-operates with the shear plate and has at least one separately sprung blade the body of which is arranged so as to be movable in an opening in a rotatably drivable blade carrier; in operation the cutting edge of the blade, which edge extends substantially in a radial direction, resiliently engages the shear plate, which is spaced from the blade carrier.
A small motorless tool is disclosed for cutting pipes which have been permanently installed in crowded environments. The tool has a rotatable circular saw mounted for translational movement toward and away from a pipe to which the tool is initially clamped. A driveshaft for the saw protrudes from one end of the tool and is adapted for operative driving engagement by a drill chuck on a portable electric drill.
An improved cutting blade construction is disclosed for use with a power operated portable tool of the type including a housing having a blade receiving member mounted thereon for continuous reciprocating movement during the power operation of the tool and a structure for stably guiding an exhaust systems tube of any size within a predetermined range for relative movement through a cutting stroke with respect to the blade when the latter is attached to the tool during the power operation thereof, the improvement in the blade comprises a multiplicity of teeth of relatively fine size disposed in spaced end sections of the cutting edge of the blade and a plurality of teeth of relatively coarse size disposed in a central section of the edge between the end sections, the teeth in the end sections being of a sufficiently fine size to transversely engage and efficiently cut across the thickness of diametrically opposed portions of the tube wall of any tube within the range during the central intermediate cutting reciprocations of the blade during the cutting stroke thereof, the teeth of the central section being of a sufficiently coarse size to tangentially engage and efficiently cut the tube wall of any tube within the range during the initial and final cutting reciprocations of the blade during the cutting stroke.
A process for positioning an assembly of intersecting beam reinforcing structural bars with respect to previously positioned column reinforcing structural bars in which the assembly of beam reinforcing structural bars is guided down onto the column reinforcing structural bars by means of pipe-like members temporarily attached either to the assembly of beam reinforcing structural bars or to the column reinforcing structural bars, after which the pipe-like members are removed.
In soldering metal members, particularly aluminum members, chemical fluxes are employed to aid in the wetting of the parent members by the molten solder filler alloy. One such flux contains substantial amounts of zinc chloride and is mixed with volatile organic or non-aqueous solvents for use in soldering. This flux is also useful in coating metals with zinc by reaction between the metal and the flux. The stability of the flux prior to blending with the organic solvent is enhanced by forming a paste with a small amount of water.
A universal culinary tool including a protective screen shield and adapted to be applied to kitchen type utensils, such as forks, spoons, and the like in a manner to protect the hand of the individual which is grasping the tool in a manner to protect the hand and the individual against injury from grease splatter, heat of the cooking fire, and the like during the individual's use of the utensil in stirring or manipulating food in the cooking process. The tool is comprised of a handle adapted to receive the shaft of the utensil therein in a removable manner therefrom, with the shield adapted to be fit about the shaft and slidable to any selected position thereon and to be pivotable relative thereto and to completely surrounding the shaft and project outwardly therefrom.
A method is disclosed of fabricating a chain saw cutter bar whereby a nose rail is precision cast from a hard facing material, a suitable brazing alloy is applied between the precision cast nose rail and a cutter bar main body portion, and the nose rail is brazed to the cutter bar main body portion.A cutter bar is disclosed having a main body portion and a nose rail assembly, the nose rail assembly having a plurality of spaced apart and parallel nose rails each having an exterior peripheral edge and an alignment means along an inside edge thereof. Means are provided interlockingly aligning the nose rails with respect to the main body portion.
The nose of a chain saw blade is radiused along its edges. The radiused nose is then grit blasted to roughen its surface and to remove any oxides. A first layer of particulate hard facing material is applied to the radiused nose and fused to obtain a metallurgical bond between the nose and the first layer. A second layer of hard facing is then welded to the prepared first layer with an inert gas shielded arc process without marked penetration into the nose's parent material. The hard facing is then finished by grinding.
In a preferred embodiment of the invention, there is provided a gold coping for a prepared tooth having fused thereto a gold base vessel having a downwardly extending key hole with two lower axially spaced-apart lateral recesses in one dimension of the hole's diameter equal to the hole diameter in another dimension, and seated on top of the coping there being a tooth cap having gold composition thereof fused to a gold annulus defining a passage therethrough in axial alignment with the key hole of the base vessel, an upper portion of the passage having a larger diameter than the lower portion of the passage, and a key having an enlarged upper-portion head and distally axial thereof there being two axially-spaced-apart laterally-extending key elements from the key shaft, the key-elements being wedge-lockable within respectively the two recesses thereby lockable-together the base vessel and the annulus, the key shaft being of a length such that the top surface of its head is substantially flush with the top edge of the annulus, and the top surface of the head including a squared screw-slot receivable of a screwdriver blade for rotating the shaft to and fro in locking and unlocking the cap to and from attachment to the tooth coping.
A dental handpiece has a head with a spherical portion and a cylindrical extension made of two pieces removably held together on a meeting plane. The head is hollow and has cushion mounts for spaced bearings carrying a shaft supporting a turbine wheel thereon between the bearings. The shaft receives a dental burr. The turbine wheel is supplied with air through a channel in both halves of the cylindrical extension and spherical portion. A hollow handle engages the cylindrical extension and may include a swivel provided with an air supply conduit joined to the supply channel by a flexible tube.
A folding pantograph comprises a pair of flat sheet supports hingedly interconnected along confronting edges, a pantograph linkage pivotally mounted on one of these supports and having a stylus adapted to trace the outline of an image thereon, and a writing instrument reaching over the hingedly connected edges to inscribe an enlarged version of the pattern upon a sheet of paper carried by the other support. A transparent overleaf disposed over at least a portion of the first support can be lifted to insert the master thereunder so that the scribing operation does not damage the original.
A gauge for identifying the diameter and threads of an elongated member. The gauge consists of a plate formed with an elongated tapered slot along which the member to be identified can be moved for determining the diameter of the member. At different regions along the slot the plate is formed with a plurality of internally threaded openings with several openings at each region all having the same diameter but different threads, so that when a region corresponding to the diameter of a member to be identified is determined, an attempt is made to thread the member into the different openings at the region corresponding to the diameter of the member until that opening is found which has threads matching those of the member to be identified. The diameters of the openings at the several regions are indicated on the gauge as well as the number of threads per inch of the several openings, so that when a member to be identified is successfully threaded into a given opening there is an indication of the diameter of the member and the threads per inch thereof.
Method and apparatus for locating an outdoor position and determining course and distance therefrom to another position, including determining and making a fix on a chart or blank grid including a base position and the exact direction and location of landmarks therefrom, and apparatus usable for field readings on the established landmarks from a position remote from a base camp whereby a user can pinpoint such remote position and determine courses and distances from the remote position to a second position or to the base camp.
A self-centering contactless sighting mark is provided with means for forming an air cushion between the mark and the wall of a cylindrical hole. The center of the circular cross section of the hole can thus be accurately determined without errors due to deviations from regular circular shape.
This disclosure concerns a support arrangement incorporating a gas bearing especially adapted for frictionless pivotal support of test models together with a novel provision for measuring the angular displacement of the model in the support. This bearing features a zero power quartz lens forming the bottom of the gas chamber combined with a light beam angular displacement measuring system which cooperates with a reflector on the bearing ball to provide accurate indications of angular deflections of the ball and the attached model.
This specification described gyros in which the spin axis is maintained in alignment with a particular direction which in some cases may be the direction of an ambient magnetic field or a component thereof. When this direction is that of an ambient magnetic field, its magnitude and polarity is used and precession in the proper direction is achieved by the automatic directional regulation of a magnet mounted on the rotor frame and lying across the rotor axis. The magnetic moment which the earth's field imparts to this magnet is directly applied to the gyro as a restoring precessional torque.
Porous material, for example, spongy polyvinyl acetal article, containing volatile liquid such as water is uniformly dried by charging the porous material into a closed drying chamber, blowing drying air, preferably, of a temperature higher than room temperature onto the porous material, and directing microwaves of very high or ultra high frequency onto the porous material without deterioration in quality.
Condenser apparatus for removing moisture from the air including a housing for the condenser apparatus, which housing has both a cooling liquid inlet and an air inlet at one end. Within the housing is a rotatable disc downstream from the liquid inlet so that when the disc is rotated and liquid is directed against the disc a cooling liquid droplet cloud is produced. At the opposite end of the condenser housing from the inlet is an air outlet and a concentrically positioned rotatable blower. Located between the blower and the rotatable disc is a rotatable water wheel for collecting entrained liquid droplets before they pass into the blower. Circumferentially around the rotatable water wheel is a liquid pump that removes liquid from the condenser apparatus. A single electric motor is utilized for rotatably driving all of the rotating elements. The condenser apparatus is utilized particularly in an automatic clothes dryer wherein hot moisture-laden air that has been passed over the fabrics to be dried is introduced into the condenser apparatus which reduces the temperature of the air to condense moisture therefrom and then recirculates the air again through the clothes dryer.
A garment-treatment apparatus includes a base, an upstanding conduit, a frame supported at the upper end of the conduit, and an enclosure for defining a garment-treatment chamber. An air blower communicates with a heater and with the conduit to blow hot air into the conduit, through discharge openings located therealong, and into the chamber. The conduit is preferably arranged to support hanger apparatus such that a garment may be hung from the hanger in substantially encircling relationship to the conduit in the region of discharge openings. In this fashion, heated air ejected through the discharge openings is directed outwardly, through the garment to facilitate curing and/or heating thereof. The air blower preferably communicates with the upper end of the conduit so as to circulate heated air downwardly therethrough. The conduit includes a final outlet at its lower end to eject, into the lower portion of the chamber, air which has by-passed air discharge openings above the final outlet. Such an arrangement enables a substantially uniform temperature profile to be maintained within the chamber.
A method for drying an electrophotographic support element containing on its front surface a latent electrostatic image which has been developed in a liquid medium, in which the support element is placed on a downwardly inclined foraminous member so that its back surface contacts the foraminous member and its front surface is directed away from the foraminous member, and cool air is circulated over the front surface and the back surface of the support element so as to evaporate the volatile components of the liquid medium from the support element. Apparatus for drying, in accordance with the method described, an electrophotographic support element containing on its front surface a developed latent electrostatic image, including means to circulate cool air over the front and back surfaces of the support element held in an inclined position in a drying chamber. The method and apparatus are particularly useful for drying support elements which are of unusually large size and weight and which have toned images of a type rendering the support elements suitable for use as lithographic masters or offset printing plates on a printing press.
An assembly for the demonstration of algebraic or arithmetic operations by the manipulation of a plurality of rectangular elements of different sizes and shapes and characterized by the incommensurability of selected width and length dimensions thereof, and the distinguishability of opposing faces of the elements to denote positively and negatively oriented elements.
Educational game apparatus for teaching sign language which comprises at least one set of at least five cubes, each cube face bearing indicia corresponding to a letter of the sign language alphabet or a word in the sign language, and at least one interpreter card bearing the entire sign language alphabet and any word signs appearing on the cubes together with the native tongue alphabetic or word equivalents thereof, whereby the cubes may be tossed and the letters or signs thereon identified.
A planisphere for providing displays and effecting calculations in both astronomy and navigation and the method of operation thereof. The planisphere structure includes plurality of substantially circular, concentric, flat dials which are progressively larger in diameter toward a central, largest diameter dial on both sides of the central, largest diameter dial. The dials are pivotally mounted centrally and have both astronomy and navigation oriented scales as well as star and polar azimuthal equidistant projection maps thereon. Reference rules and transit scale indicators, Greenwich indicators and Aries indicators, the latter three of which are part of specific planisphere dials, extend radially outwardly of the largest diameter dial on both sides of the planisphere and are connected together radially outwardly of each other respectively so that they may be readily moved relative to each other in angularly positioning the dials in operation of the planisphere. An altitude and azimuth circle reference indicator is provided with the planisphere to aid in triangulation operations and determining relative altitude and azimuth of celestial bodies when it is located on the assumed coordinate position of the navigator.In operation, the planisphere may be programmed to provide an overhead or ground position display of the stars in either of the northern or southern hemispheres viewable from different predetermined latitudes on a predetermined day at a selected time in a Copernican manner. Further, hour angle circle diagrams and navigator's time diagrams may be solved on the planisphere of the invention to provide rapid, accurate information in conjunction with readily available printed reference material without the possibility of mathematical computation errors. Altitude and azimuth information with respect to celestial bodies is also available from the planisphere of the invention.Also, the relative direction of navigational stars and their magnitude, declination and number are provided on one modification of the planisphere.
A Copernican planisphere for providing an indication of stars visible from a particular latitude on a predetermined date at a selected time and the method of operation thereof is disclosed. The planisphere structure and method of operation disclosed facilitates understanding of the Copernican principles of the relation of the heavenly bodies, accurate estimation of moon phases, and the determination of the time before which a particular heavenly body will appear at a viewing meridian, the rising and setting time of a heavenly body, the declination of heavenly bodies and the altitude thereof. Both astronomical and navigational information are provided on the planisphere disclosed.The planisphere structure includes a plurality of concentric dials, which are progressively larger in diameter downwardly, centrally mounted for relative rotation on a pivot pin. The upper dial is a mask through which a portion of the dial below is viewable. The mask includes an indicator portion having a window therethrough extending radially outwardly over the remainder of the dials. A reference rule is pivotally mounted centrally of the dials at one end and extends radially beyond the outer diameter of the larger of the dials. The reference rule is positioned between the mask and adjacent dial.
In a preferred embodiment of the invention, there is provided a picture frame simulator of right-angle shape representative of the corner of a picture frame, there being a series of consecutive right-angle strips arranged in parallel with one-another with the apex of one strip aligned with the apex of the next consecutive strips of the right-angle strips and being separate from other strips with a flexible backing strip along one leg of the back of the consecutive strips consecutively, such that the consecutive strips of the series are foldable backwardly one relative to the other such that an upper right-angle strip may be used with the lower ones folded out of the way such that the upper right-angle strip may be utilized for its simulative picture-framing function relative to a particular square cornered picture to be framed, the respective ones of the series of simulator right-angle strips differing in color and/or design of their upper surfaces as representative of different available picture frame structures, and in a further preferred embodiment the respective strips being detachable from the backing strip and when detached being mountable on top of a lower strip or of another strip being adjacent to another strip in order to get the full subjective impression of a particular double bordered picture frame where the colors of the consecutive strips as mounted on the backing strips are different than that is desired to be compared for a particular picture.
A removable outsole for sport shoes having cleats mounted thereon. The outsole comprising a rubber or like material having an outer smooth floor engaging surface and toe and heel engaging portion for retaining the out sole on the sport shoe and a plurality of discretely arranged projections on the inner portion thereof which engage with the cleats and assist in retaining the outsole on the sport shoe.
The specification describes an article of footwear and more particularly a ski boot having a lining which can be detached from it. The lining consists of a sole adapted to carry the foot and side walls, adapted to surround the foot in its length and breadth at least partly, made of foamed, predominantly open-celled plastic. At at least one of its side walls the lining is provided with detachable, interchangeable fitting parts.
A shoe, especially for aiding children in learning to walk, which includes an inner sole having an extension extending upwardly and forming the heel section, which latter together with said inner sole forms a coherent, preferably single piece structural element.
A stubbing or weeding attachment for a crawler-type tractor, comprising a stubbing plate formed of a V-shaped mounting plate which is attached to the tractor and which is equipped with a gaff and numerous projections or knives to effect the stubbing action and a rectangular casing, wherein the rectangular casing is pivotally attached to and above the mounting plate and is adapted to seize and push trees.
A display apparatus in which a flexible belt is movably mounted on rollers and carries a plurality of display characters which are positioned on a surface of the belt. A support member is positioned in supporting relation to the belt with the support member providing a slide member which slidably engages a flat surface of the belt to prevent its sagging due to the weight of the display characters mounted thereon and side members which restrain the belt from movement in a sideways direction. Guide means are also positioned relative to the belt for positioning the display characters in a display position relative to the belt surface on which they are supported.
A photographic picture holder which permits one to accumulate several photographs, store them while taking additional photos and be able to inspect each photo while they are developing.
A compact device for displaying an illuminated numerical digit or other figure having a plurality of light sources, each light source housed in a separate compartment of the device and adapted to illuminate one elongated section of the figure with uniform brightness. Each compartment has a triangular cross-section in a plane parallel to the length of the device with the light source mounted near the apex of the triangle and the elongated figure section located near the base of the triangle. All surfaces within each compartment are mirror-like, coated with a substance which forms a light-reflecting surface. An inclined light-reflecting surface is provided in each compartment adjacent to the figure section and triangle base.
The disclosure relates to an alpha-numeric light display capable of providing substantially uniform illumination over the entire character being illuminated and utilizing relatively low power requirement. This is accomplished, in part, by providing a reflector behind the lamp filament for each character element, the reflector being arranged to transmit most of the light reflected therefrom to the outer regions of the character element. The disclosure also includes provisions for cascading a plurality of the alpha-numeric light display elements to provide a snap-in, self supporting, heat dissipating multi alpha-numeric display.
A display device including a body having a plurality of light producing or color changing areas. The light producing or color changing areas are arranged, relative to each other, to provide an information display, for example an alpha-numeric readout, or a visual indication of the operational characteristics of a machine or instrument. Each light producing area includes a source of light or color copy and means for spreading, via reflective surfaces, the light or color.
A rifle breech having a recess arranged to receive a cartridge container, the cartridge container being a tubular member the outer walls of which are engaged by the walls of the recess when inserted therein, a cartridge container having a central bore of diameter to engage and retain the rim and body of a cartridge, the cartridge container being effective in preventing rupture of the cartridge case and preventing blow back from the barrel, thereby enabling increased quantities of propellant to be used to effect consequential increased projectile velocities.
A fishing apparatus including a lure having at least partial floatation is attached to a shaft having a rotatable spinner thereon. A weight is supported forwardly of and below the spinner for maintaining the lure and spinner adjacent a lake bottom without interfering with the spinner rotation.
An improved fishing tackle comprising a weedless hook incorporating a flexible guard with braided filament core and an outer skin or coating of plastic, having an end thereof receivable over a hook tip and a lure comprising a weedless spinner, the spinner being fixed whereby a fish may not be able to set off the weed guard thus slipping the end thereof off the hook tip.
An angler's lure is provided with two lateral fins which are rotatable into two different settings, to cause right-or left-handed rotation of the lure selectively, by simple rotation of one part of the lure body relative to another.
A front member consists of an inclined flat front panel and opposite triangularly shaped ends rigidly connected to the front panel and a rear member consists of a flat rear panel and a cover pivotally or flexibly connected together. The two major members are joined by pivotal connections between the two ends and the rear panel lower edge. The combination front panel and ends moves automatically by gravity when the cover is manually released from its frictional engagement with the front panel to expose a relatively wide access opening to the box interior and to a fish hook mounting bar fastened to the inner surface of the front panel adjacent said opening.
A fishing tackle box or the like comprising front and rear box members hingedly connected at their bottoms, an exterior cover which engages both front and rear box members in closed position, and a mounting bar for fish hooks and other equipment. The mounting bar extends longitudinally of the front panel of the front box member near its upper edge, and a resilient pad in the cover overlies the mounting bar when the cover is closed to thereby retain said hooks and other equipment in intended positions. The rear panel of the rear box member is provided with a pair of spaced apart clips fastened at their ends to the said panel and spaced from the panel for reception of the belt of a user. A slot and pin arrangement limits relative pivotal movement of the front and rear box members.
Control of subterranean termites in buildings is carried out by impregnating at least the exposed lower timbers of the building with a termiticidally effective amount of hexachlorocyclopentadiene dimer in a liquid organic solvent carrier. Preferably, termite infestation in the ground under and surrounding the building is also controlled by baiting. The bait consists of a termite-attracting carbohydrate carrier containing a termiticidally effective amount of hexachlorocyclopentadiene dimer. For baiting, it is only necessary to make holes in the ground at 1-2 yard intervals and insert 10-20 grams of the bait into each hole.
A model airplane is provided with controls for operation of its steering means such as elevators, ailerons and rudders from a place outside of the airplane. It is supported or suspended in an air current generated by, for example, a vacuum cleaner.
A bobbin rotatably mounted on a handle and upon which a cord may be caused to wind and unwind as well as caused to spin upon itself to effect the spinning of an object fastened to the outer end of the cord, the object being susceptible to controlled constant and variable flights and other maneuvers.
A yo-yo construction wherein the side disc members of the yo-yo spool are of integrally molded, substantially hollow construction is described. The spool disc members are formed with concave outer wall portions which are reinforced with a plurality of equidistantly peripherally spaced, diametrically extending web portions the converging inner ends of which merge to provide an axially extending cylindrical sleeve defining a cylindrical recess for the friction-fit reception of the interconnecting pin in the assembly of the yo-yo.
This invention consists of a ball made in two parts in which is secured a spindle held in place by a rubber band at each end thereof. The outer end of each rubber band is secured by a hook to the inside wall of the aforesaid ball. A string is wrapped around the longitudinal center of the aforesaid spindle and extends upward through an opening in the aforesaid ball. When the spindle in the ball rotates and winds up, the rubber bands will cause the invention to ride up and down on the string which is held in the hand.
A model airplane which is constructed principally of cardboard and a lacquer paint such as conventional model airplane dope. The strength in certain areas of the construction is provided with wood dowelling which is interposed between the corrugations of the corrugated cardboard. The radio receiver is interchangeably mounted within the airplane of this invention by means of rubber band tie down means. In a similar manner the engine is interchangeably mounted upon the airplane also by means of rubber and band tie down means.
An aerial toy configured to simulate a bird or flying insect and having relatively loose wings capable of fluttering, within limits, during flight. Propulsion is produced by a single-bladed propellor extending from only one side of its axis of rotation to cause the toy to fly along a sinuous path and induce fluttering of said wings.
A plastic patch has a simulated skin blemish or injury on one surface beneath a first adhesive film. A second adhesive film is provided on the other surface for adherence to a figure toy. A simulated bandage has an adhesive coating on one surface and is applied to the figure toy in contact with the plastic patch which then adheres to the adhesive coating on the simulated bandage with more tenacity than to the figure toy so that the patch is automatically removed from the figure toy when the simulated bandage is removed, thereby simulating healing of the simulated skin blemish or injury by the simulated bandage.
A flexible, complaint film of plastic on which is represented any one of a plurality of discrete skin blemishes. A handbook associated therewith illustrates all said discrete blemishes, identifies each by name, signifies the pathogenesis thereof, and prescribes theraputic prescriptions therefor. Each film-blemish and handbook illustration thereof is cross-indexed to effect identification of said film-blemish, said film being provided for laying upon the body, adjacent to a naturally subsisting skin blemish, to identify the latter and to determine the treatment therefor via reference to said handbook.
A doll having a hollow head with a mouth opening therein. An actuating device is positioned within the head which causes a food-type material introduced into the mouth, to be discharged through a discharge opening remote from the mouth. An electric switch proximate the mouth, closes a circuit which permits the device to operate and create a peristaltic pumping action within the doll. The switch can be actuated by inserting a spoon or nursery bottle into the mouth, or by gently pressing against the doll's lower lip.
A combination toy including a doll, a cup having a protruding lip, and a chamber pot or pot chair with which a child can play to feed the doll and place it on the pot chair for elimination of liquid from the doll. The doll also has a recorded speaking mechanism mounted internally and a programming system responsive to removal of the cup lip from the doll's mouth and/or responsive to seating of the doll upon the potty chair for actuating the record player mechanism to play appropriate portions of a prerecorded message with the record player programmed to turn off after each portion of the message has been played. A system is also provided for moving the lips of the doll during playing of each portion of the message to simulate movement during talking. After the entire message has been played, the recording mechanism is programmed to replay.
A doll which can be made to smile or to pout and cry when its head is turned to the left or right, comprising an elastic hollow head member and mechanisms for deforming it when the head is turned. A rigid member braces the center of the upper lip so it does not move. A lower lip member can move the lower lip down or up, while a corner moving member can move the corners of the mouth up or down, all movements being relative to the center of the upper lip to create a smile or pout. The corner moving member is mounted to pull the corners of the mouth back as it moves them up and to push the corners of the mouth forwardly as it moves them down, to make the expression more natural. When the mouth opens in a smile, a hole in the mouth cavity is exposed for the reception of water that flows into a reservoir in the head, then when the head is moved to a pout position the reservoir is squeezed to supply water to holes in the eyes so that the doll appears to cry.
An animated doll comprising a body having relatively movable upper and lower torso portions, a head movably mounted relative to the torso, and a pair of movable arms. The arms are connected with circuitry for actuating a motor in the interior of the torso, with the motor being associated with drive means for moving the upper torso in a reciprocal tilting or toggle motion about a horizontal axis relative to the lower torso. Each arm is associated with separate contacts in the circuitry for actuating the motor and a resistance means is provided between the contacts for changing the amount of power supplied to the motor, and therefore the speed thereof, depending on which arm is moved to an actuating position. In addition, the head is movable about a vertical axis facing one side or the other depending on which arm is moved to actuating position.
A doll including upper and lower torso portions pivotally interconnected at the waist. A head and an arm are pivotally mounted on the upper torso portion. Transmission means, such as meshing gears, connected to the arm, head, and lower torso portion, transmit swinging movement of the arm to the head and lower torso portion.
A doll having animated torso, leg, arm and head movement. The torso follows a side to side pivoting movement, with the center of the pivoting taking place at the bottom of the torso. The arms move in unison from side to side. The head oscillates back and forth along with the movement of the torso and arms. The legs propel the doll from side to side, first moving a predetermined number of steps to one side, then reversing the direction and moving the same number of steps to the other side.
This invention relates to an activating composition for the tapping of trees, particularly of live trees of the Pinus family. Said composition comprises (dry weight) 5-60 parts of an alkali metal or alkaline-earth metal or ammonium lignosulfite and (calculated as H.sub.2 SO.sub.4) 24-93 parts of an aqueous sulfuric acid having a H.sub.2 SO.sub.4 concentration of 30-94 wt percent.
A closure structure for disposition over a window in the wall of an air duct is provided to allow access into the duct. A rectangular frame member is positioned to surround the window in the air duct and is secured along the perimeter of the window by a plurality of flanges which project from the frame transversely of the wall. Each of the flanges has a line of weakness proximal the wall and is manually bendable along this line to a position contiguous the wall to secure the frame member. The two flanges located adjacent each corner of the frame member comprise starter tabs which have substantially less resistance to deformation along their respective lines of weakness than the other flanges thus allowing the frame member to be held in place relative to the wall while the starter tabs are bent into position to hold the frame in place. The remaining flanges may then be bent into place to securely and permanently hold the frame member. An elongated hinge pin is telescopically received by the frame member and the door for mounting the door for swinging movement relative to the frame member. This pin is removable from the frame by simply pulling upwardly to thereby remove the door. This allows greater access to the duct.
A sashless window structure which is economical in building construction and in rehabilitation of old buildings. The structure includes unique track members, preferably extrusions, having a flat base strip and a multiplicity of resilient flat finger strips mounted lengthwise along one surface of the base strip and having enlargements at their free edges. The finger strips define channels therebetween which receive plastic window panes which, principally by virtue of the unique track member configuration, are both slidable in the channels and firmly held in place when released.
A door having intermediate the ends thereof a pair of resilient bumpers fixedly located opposite each other on each side of the door, each of said bumpers including at least one threaded first recess extending partially therethrough from the face thereof in contact with the door and receiving the threaded end of a bolt extending through the door and at least one second recess extending partially therethrough from the face thereof in contact with the door and dimensioned to accommodate the head of said bolt, the thickness of material between each second recess and the face of the bumper remote from the door being such as to allow penetration therethrough of a driving tool for causing said bolt to enter a first threaded recess in the other of said bumpers.
A high pressure cleaning apparatus including a blasting nozzle for separately directing a liquid and gas-abrasive mixture outwardly toward an object being cleaned; and, pumping apparatus for pumping liquid and a gas-abrasive mixture to the blasting nozzle, the blasting nozzle including mixing means for mixing the liquid with the gas-abrasive mixture outwardly of the nozzle for propelling the gas-abrasive mixture at high velocity and pressure. Control means operable at the nozzle are provided for controlling the flow of liquid and gas-abrasive mixture to the nozzle.
A mobile apparatus for the surface treatment with ferromagnetic particulate material thrown onto the surface at high speed, includes a housing which encloses a device for projecting the material onto the surface. Elements are provided for removal of the particulate material from the surface including air jets for slightly lifting the material, a magnetic drum and a conveyor for attracting the ferromagnetic material and conveying it for subsequent reuse.
A novel, mobile, continuously operable abrasive surface cleaning apparatus utilizing a rotating brush for abrasive recovery is disclosed. Also, a novel continuous belt elevator or conveyor for recirculating the recovered abrasive is disclosed.
A novel, mobile, continuously operable abrasive surface cleaning apparatus utilizing a rotating brush for abrasive recovery is disclosed. Also, a novel continuous belt elevator or conveyor for recirculating the recovered abrasive is disclosed.
Abrasive cutting apparatus in which a mixture of abrasive particles and a fluid, such as air, under pressure, are expelled at high speed from a nozzle, a compartmented housing being utilized to provide a working compartment connecting directly with a suction compartment, and an isolated control compartment for the abrasive reservoir or reservoirs and associated control components which are supported for removal as a unitary assembly. Means are provided for utilizing the pressurized fluid for fluffing up the abrasive powder in the reservoir to facilitate feeding to the nozzle, and to prevent clogging or packing in the reservoir. A pneumatically actuated pinch valve controls flow of air and the carried abrasive powder to the nozzle through a tubing of a material, such as latex, which prevents tunneling, and manually operable valve means provides for reservoir selection and venting.
An apparatus which utilizes a stream of gas to propel fine particles which is particularly useful in the manufacturing of dental restorations for functions such as cutting, cleaning and polishing, is disclosed. An abrasive powder is forced from a container by a stream of gas which first passes through the powder. The gas, after passing through the powder, flows through a tube disposed in the powder and then to a nozzle. An orifice disposed through the wall of the tube provides an even and continuous injection of powder into the stream of gas.
Apparatus for grinding surfaces adjacent the ends of a pair of rail sections to be welded together comprising means for holding the rail sections in end-to-end aligned, longitudinal relation, abrasive grinding means movable about an axis of rotation extending laterally of the rail sections and at an acute angle relative to the longitudinal axis thereof mounted on carriage means slidable longitudinally of the rail section, and pressure means for moving the abrasive member into contact with the surface of the rail sections during longitudinal travel by the carriage.
A sanding machine with complementary upper and lower sanding heads which have fast moving abrasive belts trained about and constantly shifted edgewise along superimposed contact drums between which the work is fed in a manner whereby the parallel narrow zones of work performing engagement of the abrasive belts with the opposite sides of the work extend at an oblique angle of not more than 75.degree. to the lengthwise dimension of the work.
A grinder includes a drive tube dimensioned to freely receive an elongated, grinding element having an axially extending opening; locking means for releasably locking the grinding element for rotation with the drive tube; and an adapter insert dimensioned to be slideably received within the drive tube and mounting a co-axially extending support and rigidifying mandrel dimensioned to be slideably received within the opening of the grinding element.
Apparatus for beveling the annular edges or rims of the open ends of vessels such as the sealing edges of rectangular or generally elliptical television picture tube viewing panels or funnel members or the like. A plurality of rollers for rotatably supporting each vessel, a rotatable vacuum chuck for transfer of each respective vessel to and from the support rollers and imparting rotation thereto, at least one grinding wheel for contacting and beveling the annular edges of vessels supported and rotated on the rollers, and means for maintaining the rate of beveling constant regardless of the continuously varying linear location of the grinding wheel along the annular edge of each respective vessel during rotation and beveling thereof.
A temporary wall and roof structure used primarily for protecting unset mortar in a masonry wall from freezing weather conditions. The temporary wall and roof will preferably enclose completely the masonry wall and may be extended upward as the work progresses. The temporary wall and roof are sufficiently weather-tight to permit effective use of a space heater to maintain a non-freezing temperature. In other situations the temporary wall may be used on the exterior of a building in progress to protect against the weather generally. The temporary wall and roof are made of rigid sheet material which can be disassembled and stored in a relatively small space for repeated future uses on other buildings.
The tower assembly is used in construction work for supporting a load such as girders or concrete form assemblies at varying elevated positions above the ground surface during the building of highway bridge structures and the like and comprises a series of vertically stacked tower sections. Each tower section has four corner posts which in adjacent tower sections are releasably connected together in an end to end relation to provide a desired tower height. The corner posts on the top and bottom tower sections have independently linearly adjustable extension units to accommodate, respectively, varying load engageable surfaces and an uneven ground surface. A frame structure is connectable to each adjacent pair of corner posts in a tower section at selected positions longitudinally thereof to vary the spacing between adjacent pairs of corner posts in accordance with the dimensional requirements of the load to be supported by the tower assembly.
A planar grid of relatively lightweight struts dismantleably disposed in predetermined fashion to provide a unitarily portable, relatively rigid framework over which is draped and anchored a sheet of a wind-impervious material which incorporates suitably reinforced grommets through which the sheet is anchored. The entire planar windbreaker or screen is disposed against the facade of a steel skeleton with the periphery of the screen in contact with the steel members to which it is anchored; the screen may be moved either vertically, by means of winches from which it is suspended, or horizontally, by relocating the winches, always maintaining the screen outside the skeleton. Under normal weather conditions, it is an effective weather seal, while under storm conditions it is believed to flex sufficiently so as to permit relief venting of the enclosed zone, at the same time preventing the screen from being torn asunder. In operation, the screen provides a seal under normal conditions and an automatic controlled leakage in high winds as a function of wind velocity.
The present invention relates to a machine for covering bottles and other containers with netting, which includes a general framework in which there is arranged a group of mechanisms of simultaneous or successive functioning, together with means to operate them, which mechanisms are: an additional mechanism for feeding tubular netting from an upper storage drum to an expander device; the said device for expanding the netting; the mechanism for drawing the netting; the mechanism for stapling and cutting the lower extremity of the netting; the mechanism for stapling and cutting the upper extremity of the netting; the support mechanism for the container to be covered with netting, and the mechanism for feeding staples, complemented in an optional manner by an automatic mechanism for the entry of the bare bottle and the exit of the bottled covered with netting to a chain, store or for subsequent operations.
An apparatus for wrapping bulky objects, or objects stacked on pallets, by which a continuous length of flattened foil tubing is positively gripped at its leading end, is opened out, and this open end is drawn down over the objects to envelop them, whereafter jaws are brought into action automatically to seal and sever the section of enwrapping foil from the parent stock.
A band grinding tool for rounding the edge portions of blades for compressor and turbine plants is proposed wherein the device for fastening the workpiece to be machined and for feeding it to the grinding area comprises a support connected to the bed through an elastic link, the support being capable of moving in the direction of the transverse feeding and carrying a movable head connected to it, and containing a means to accomplish the longitudinal traverse of the tool profile along the surface of the profile cam, the means being used for rocking the head with respect to the support to accomplish the longitudinal traverse of the workpiece along the grinding band supported in the machining area by the support cam.
An abrading device including at least two elongated abrading members and mounting means for connecting the members to a rotating drive means, such as an electric drill, which rotates the mounting means and thus the members to accomplish abrading. The mounting means supports each abrading member at a position offset from the axis of rotation of the mounting means for pivotal movement about an axis perpendicular to the axis of rotation such that when rotation of the mounting means occurs, the members pivot from a rest position to an abrading position. In a first embodiment the members are supported in slots in the mounting means and in a second embodiment the members are supported on ears carried on one surface of the mounting means.
Either or both of the opposite surfaces of a disc are coated with an abrasive material that is held in place by an adhesive. The disc is thin in radial cross section and of a somewhat elastic material so as to be flexibly and transiently deformable, when axially loaded, into conformity with compound curvatures on surfaces to be ground by the abrasive. The rear or inner surface of the disc is centrally integrally formed with a co-axially rearwardly projecting coupling sleeve of relatively small outer diameter, e.g., preferably no more than one-fourth to one-fifth of the disc diameter. The sleeve is matingly engageable by one end of a male driving arbor, the two parts being press-fitted together and held against axial displacement in either direction by a detent means comprising complementarily shaped portions of the two pieces. The sleeve interior and the arbor are of non-circular cross sectional configuration to be keyed together for co-rotation.
A machine for multiple grinding blanks of crystalline structure in the production of semiconductors. It accomplishes the cutting-off, grinding and polishing operations. The machine comprises a turn table on which there are mounted carriages with blanks. Around the table there are mounted grinding heads. The process of machining blanks is carried out continuously by way of successive steps of grinding and polishing the ends of blanks and then cutting-off the latter.
An elongate retainer clip having securing means at one end comprising teeth and associated means for causing the teeth to biasedly engage a stationary member to which the clip is attached. Abutment means are formed for limiting the depth to which the securing means engage the stationary member, and to provide a surface upon which pressure may be applied to facilitate initial engagement. The opposite end of the clip is provided with an inclined extremity and a latching projection such that the latching projection may be released by applying pressure to the inclined surface. In a further embodiment, the retainer clip is used to secure a panel to an enclosure having an extended flange thereabout. In order to disengage the clip the panel is rotated, pivoting upon the edge of the flange and deflecting the edge of the clip downwardly.
A shelter for airplanes characterized by being flush to the ground when closed thereby being virtually invisible, and by being highly resistive to high energy explosive impact. The shelter is comprised of: a reinforced walled subsurface enclosure having a plurality of fixed columns to support a roof located such that an airplane can be lowered between the columns; a roof supported by a plurality of telescoping supports about its periphery such that the roof can be raised to a level higher than an airplane when the airplane is at ground level and lowered to be flush with the ground thus closing the subsurface enclosure and being supported by the fixed columns; and a floor suspended from the roof whereon an airplane can be placed, said floor having holes therein over the fixed columns such that when the roof is raised, the floor and airplane will be at ground level with the tops of the fixed cloumns being below the floor, and when the roof is lowered, the fixed columns will pass through the holes in the floor as the floor descends passing alongside the airplane to support the roof in its fully lowered position. The shelter for airplanes disclosed being further provided with sealable ducts for the intake of air and outlet of exhaust fumes so that the engine of the airplane contained therein may be started when the shelter is in the closed position for maintenance and instant readiness for takeoff after attack.
A demountable modular dwelling structure formed of individual detachably interlocking panels. Each panel is formed by joining at least three frame members end-to-end to define a framework. Each of the framing members has a cutaway part and an overhanging part at each end. The cutaway and overhanging parts mate with like parts of the adjoining framing member defining a cavity within the joint. Pin means restrain lateral movement between the joint members. The frame members are grooved to receive siding panels which lock within the grooves and maintain the frame members in proper angular relationship.
A standing seam roof comprising seamed edge panels held down on the roof supporting structure by clips which have V-shaped sections interfitting with V-shaped sections on the panels. The clips are concealed in the seam.
A triaxially prestressed concrete member having a polygonal cross-section is disclosed. The member includes an elongate hollow casing which has a polygonal, usually square or rectangular cross-section. Elongate arcuate liners are located within the casing and are co-extensive therewith. The opposite side lateral edges of each liner are in abutment with adjacent interior corners of the casing. These liners divide the hollow interior of the casing into at least three side sections defined by the concave surfaces of the respective arcuate liners and the interior surfaces of the casing, and a central section defined by the convex surfaces of the liners. Non-expansive concrete material fills the side portions of the casing, and expansive concrete material fills the central portion. The radial expansion of the expansive concrete is restrained by the arcuate liners which are in contact with the interior corners of the casing to radially or biaxially prestress the concrete. Longitudinal expansion of the expansive concrete material is prohibited by adherence of the concrete to the convex surfaces of the arcuate liners to prestress the concrete in a third triaxial direction.
A curtain wall comprising a substantially rectangular fixed casing configured to hold a plurality of windows in fixed side-by-side coplanar relation including internal moisture weeping means. The casing comprises a plurality of horizontal and vertical members held in fixed spaced relation relative to each other, the horizontal members including internal weep holes and the vertical member including internal feed passages and internal weep holes communicating with a reservoir means vented to the exterior of the curtain wall to channel moisture through the internal feed passages and internal weep holes to the reservoir means and thence to the exterior of the curtain wall through venting apertures.
A window sash rebate profile adapted to be made from plastic material and comprising a longitudinal condensate eduction channel having parallel sidewalls supporting the window rim sash the channel bottom being continued outwardly from the channel from wall into a window frame cover plate, a condensate reception gutter being attached to the outer side of the channel backwall at a short distance below the rim sash bottom, slit-shaped apertures through said backwall just above the bottom of said gutter leading into the said channel and similar openings through the channel front wall leading to the outside above the said cover plate.
A building construction assembly including a first elongated structural member having a longitudinally disposed keyway having a base wall and a pair of sidewalls projecting from the base wall. Means providing an elongated restricted throat keyway opening. A second elongated structural member having a longitudinal axis disposed generally transversely with respect to the longitudinal axis of the first elongated structural member. The second elongated structural member having a locking channel having a bottom wall, a front wall and a rear wall. The second elongated structural member disposed with its locking channel in aligned relationship with respect to an end opening of the keyway. A locking key having a first portion extending into the keyway and a second portion extending into and in engagement with the locking channel. Means resisting undesired movement of the key into the keyway sufficiently far to permit removal of the second key portion from the locking channel. A condensate gutter element may be secured within the locking channel.
Upright or horizontal walls of stationary buildings or vehicles, comprising stucco, plaster, epoxy putty or other plastic material on and between end elements of used, opened, non-rectangular cans (or optionally on new cans), each of which comprises a tube and end elements bonded to the tube. The cans are placed on a can-backing wall element and between upright wall elements that may comprise for example plywood sheets or vertical building-corner elements. The cans contain gaseous material which may comprise: air or other gas, alone; such gas mixed with fibrous insulation, foamed plastic, insulating pellets or hollow globules, bark modules, short lengths of air-containing reed or bamboo or other hollow or pithy stems; or gas mixed with any other kind of insulation. Stucco (comprising portland or epoxy cement or lime, mixed with fine aggregate or the like) is troweled or sprayed on end elements of the previously assembled cans. Tongues of the stucco, holding it in place, go into cavities between contiguous portions of the can sides and when the cans are of the used, opened type also into the openings of the can-end elements. Optionally, the cans may be of glass (bottles or jars). The invention comprises a method of making the composite wall.
Wall panels are adapted to be interconnected by separable joint structure which can serve as an electrical conduit. A joint structure enables panels to be joined without the use of screws, nails or other similar fasteners. The joint structure involves force separable components.
A horizontal beam of inverted generally T-shpaed vertical cross section supports edge portions of generally horizontal roof panels on transversely oppositely depending base flanges of said beam with a beam central web portion projecting upwardly between said panel edge portions, preferably in the form of transversely spaced vertical webs. Water proof upper layers of shape self-sustaining material are portioned over the panel upper surfaces and have edge portions which project upwardly from the panel edge portions and terminate spaced upwardly from said panel edge portions. An inverted U-shaped cap is positioned over the beam webs and has downwardly projecting leg portions transversely outwardly of the edge portions of the panel upper layers, said leg portions terminating downwardly overlying said panel upper layers. Transversely spaced webs project downwardly from the cap internally thereof and hook engage the beam webs retaining the cap and beam in assembly, with angled guides preferably being formed on the cap for guiding the beam webs into such assembly. Thus, the upwardly projecting edge portions of the panel upper layers provide water barriers internally of the cap for preventing water from flowing transversely into the assembly and downwardly along the inner edges of the panels.
A metal member is hermetically sealed to the surface of a wall of a glass member or article such as a reflector portion for a sealed beam automobile headlight lamp. The metal member preferably supports an electrical lead-in conductor which is inserted through a passage embodied in a wall of the glass article for the purpose, for example, of making an electrical connection to an electrical component such as a filament used in a completed headlight lamp using the glass article. The hermetic seal is made between the surface of the glass member which surrounds the passage and a surface of the metal member which is positioned adjacent the glass surface surrounding the passage. In making the hermetic seal, the surface of the glass surrounding the passage is metallized by providing it with an annulus or band of silver paint or other solderable, hermetic and adherent material having a precious metal content and, therefore, having a relatively high temperature coefficient of thermal expansion. The band or annulus and the surface of the metal member facing the annulus are tinned with solder and are then soldered to each other. By using, for the metal member, a material having a relatively low coefficient of thermal expansion, the relatively high expansion silver paint-solder combination is compensated for and a thermal shock resistant glass-to-metal seal results. In a modified form of the invention, the metal member is provided with an orifice or passage for purpose of exhausting a complete lamp.
A polyvinyl alcohol gel pad. The gel pad has properties which make it  use as a support pad in the prevention and treatment of decubitus ulcers (also known as pressure sores) and for other purposes. The polyvinyl alcohol gel is made by cross-linking high molecular weight polyvinyl alcohol using a cross-linking agent, such as formaldehyde, in the presence of an acid catalyst, such as hydrochloric acid, and by incorporating at least one internal plasticizer, such as propylene glycol, in the gel. The support pad is completed by putting a thin-film envelope around the gel.The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment to me of any royalty thereon.
Method and surgical system for decubitus ulcer management, in which the surgical devices in the system each comprise a flexible, fluid-impervious bladder containing a gel or jelly formed as a colloidal system from water and a water-soluble resin which is a carboxy vinyl polymer of extremely high molecular weight and capable of displacement or flow within the bladder distributing the weight of the body of the user supported thereon. The mucilage or jelly has some form of elasticity and has yield value, both of which are controllable and variable and is capable of distributing pressure over an entire portion of the body resting on the bladder and avoids excessive pressure points thereon.
A method of wrapping uniformly shaped flat pieces, such as coins, piled up in columns, in a shrink film covering, comprises the operational steps of feeding a film band longitudinally folded in half and with the fold being below and the height of the folded band corresponding approximately to the height of the pile of pieces to be wrapped, intermittently heat-sealing and/or perforating the folded film band along vertical lines at distances corresponding to the diameter of the pile of pieces to be wrapped so as to form individual bags, consecutively blowing up each bag to open it, introducing into the open bag a bundle of pins adapted to be spread apart so as to hold the bag fast and open, tearing the bag off along the perforation to separate it from the remaining bags, transporting the open bag under the prepared pile, dropping the pile in vertical position into the bag, slowly lowering the bag containing the pile still in vertical position while it is subjected to a current of hot air to cause the film to shrink and to tightly engage the pile. The device for carrying out the method includes bag forming means in the form of heat-sealing and perforating equipment to form the bag side closures. Each bag is opened by a blower and is engaged after opening by a bag spreading and transporting mechanism. The opened bags are transported by the spreading and transporting mechanism to a location below a vertical stack of the articles and a selected quantity of the articles is dropped into each opened bag in succession. The filled bags are moved by means of a lowering mechanism through a heating chamber to cause the bag film material to tightly engage the articles while they are held in a vertical orientation.
A method of, and apparatus for, inserting material into an enveloping container therefore are disclosed in accordance with the teachings of the present invention. Successive enveloping containers are continuously transported at a determined rate of speed along a first rectilinear transport path. Insert material is continuously transported along a second rectilinear transport path in fixed synchronism with the determined rate of speed of the transported enveloping containers, the first and second transport paths defining an angle therebetween and establishing an inserting zone. The continuously transported enveloping containers are predisposed to receive the insert material. The insert material is guided along said rectilinear path into said inserting zone by fixed guide means; said fixed guide means urging each insert into a corresponding enveloping container as said enveloping containers and insert material are transported into and through the inserting zone.
A method and apparatus for continuous packaging of bottled beverages, or the like, in basket-style carriers wherein the carriers are advanced by an overhead conveyor, in opened-up condition with bottom wall forming flaps, which initially depend in the plane of the side walls being hinged to an upwardly inclined position while the carriers travel down an inclined path, for assembly with groups of the bottled beverages which are advanced on a bottom conveyor to an assembly area where successive carriers are forced in telescoping relation down over groups of bottles and the bottom wall forming panels of the carriers which have been hinged upwardly are engaged and drawn downwardly by plate members carried on endless conveyors traveling in vertical paths on opposite sides of the groups of bottles, after which heat activatable adhesive on the bottom wall forming flaps is activated and the flaps which have been swung down upon advance beyond the draw down plates are plowed into bottom wall forming position with overlapping margins in seam forming engagement so as to complete the packages.
Apparatus for both dispensing and opening bags, particularly those formed of a thin film of flexible plastic material. A stack of such bags, each having at least one pair of aligned apertured therein, is suspended from a hollow tube or rod which passes through the aligned bag apertures. The aperture in the upper bag wall is sufficiently large so that it can readily pass over an enlarged flange on the end of the tube or rod, but the aligned aperture in the rear bag is of smaller size so that it can pass over the enlarged flange only by forcibly removing the bag from the dispensing apparatus. Pressurized air is forced through the interior of the tube or rod and is directed by a nozzle so as to inflate the topmost bag in the stack, thereby holding the bag open and facilitating the placing of articles therein.
A flexible bag and device for supporting such bags in an open position to facilitate rapid filling. The device includes adjustable support means to enable its use with bags of various sizes. The bag includes means to cooperate with the support means and prevent variations in the size of the bag opening during filling.
An electrically powered tool having a hollow metallic, usually elongated handle secured at one end to a motor-receiving and tool-supporting housing, an inner, relatively rigid tube extending axially through the metallic in spaced apart relation thereto, and one or more electrical conductors each having an electrical insulation covering extending through the inner insulating tube and into the housing for connection to the tool driving motor therein for supplying operating current thereto. A handle grip may be provided at the end of the handle remote from the housing. The inner insulation tube and the insulation covering on the conductors provide a double insulation construction in the handle. The handle and insulating tube are supported in such a manner that no metallic fasteners are inserted through the walls of the handle and the insulating tube.
A corn header which includes a pair of harvesting rolls and associated stripper plates and trash knives mounted on a frame structure which is adapted to be supported in cantilever fashion on a gear housing at the forward end of a combine, each roll and its associated elements being hingedly mounted on the gear housing and sharing common load sensitive support anchors at the front end which permit the assemblies to yield outwardly if the crop density exceeds a predetermined pressure level on the rolls and to return to their pre-set location automatically after ejection of such crop concentration without losing their adjustment relative to each other.
A corn-picking machine having picking rollers and shedding ledges located above the picking rollers. The picking rollers and shedding ledges are pivotally mounted at their rear ends when viewed in the moving direction. The shedding ledges are pivotal relative to the rollers. The front ends of the picking rollers and the shedding ledges are connected with each other, which connection is preferably disengageable The support of the front bearing of each picking roller is provided with a pivoting device for pivoting the support together with the corresponding shedding ledge, and the pivoting devices of all picking rollers may be operated by one common driving device.
A yarn piecing and knotting method and its apparatus utilized for the open-end spinning process. A supplementary yarn is utilized in one version, while another version is an application of a similar method to conventional yarn piecing. After completion of the yarn piecing operation, an upstream yarn delivering from a spinning rotor and a downstream yarn unwound from a yarn package are knotted and an excess portion of the upstream yarn which includes the portion containing the yarn piecing operation and a portion of the downstream yarn are cut off.
A method and apparatus for spinning-in yarn into a spindleless spinning machine when, during the operation thereof, the spinning process has been interrupted due to the breakage of the main yarn thread. The device of the invention is provided with an automatic knotting mechanism which automatically feeds into a spinning nozzle an auxiliary yarn thread. The impurities in the spinning nozzle, as well as the fiber material located therein, is spun onto the auxiliary thread which is then automatically knotted to the broken-off end of the finished yarn thread by the knotting mechanism. Means are provided in the device of the invention for automatically interrupting the feeding of unfinished fibers as well as the takeup of the finished yarn thread during the knotting operation.
A method and apparatus are disclosed for the production of a novel industrial polyester filament yarn of improved uniformity wherein a plurality of filaments are melt-spun into a heated zone coupled with controlled cooling. The yarn produced has improved long and short term Uster uniformity and improved uniformity of physical properties, particularly breaking strength, as shown by a reduced standard deviation of breaking strength. The yarn is produced by melt spinning into a heated zone which maintains the filaments molten for intervals below the spinneret face and subsequently quenching the filaments with a radial outflow of cooling gases, thereby producing a low birefringence yarn which is capable of being drawn at high draw ratios to high tenacities.
Novel spun polyethylene terephthalate strands of improved percent elongation at break and initial modulus are obtained by (1) passing the strand under tension through a jet gas stream such as steam at a rate and gas temperature that effects fusion to the degree that the pulse propagation of the treated strand over a strand distance of 60 centimeters while under 20 grams tension is reduced to less than 300 microseconds or (2) passing the spun strand under tension around a roll heated to a temperature of about 175.degree. to 195.degree. C. at a rate of about 300 to 500 feet per minute.
 Textile yarn comprising oriented, crystalline fibers of poly(tetramethylene terephthalate) characterized by an improved combination of properties including a liveliness index of at least 0.25, and a toughness of at least 0.50 g./denier. Also disclosed is crimped staple textile fiber comprising oriented, crystalline, poly(tetramethylene terephthalate) characterized by a liveliness index of at least 0.25 and crush recovery greater than 50 percent.
A polyhexamethylenedodecanedioamide feed yarn for false-twist texturing has excellent performance when draw-textured at a draw ratio of 3.5X to 4.5X, an applied twist of 170 to 200 turns per inch and a texturing temperature of 150.degree. to 200.degree.C. The textured product is strong, has a low yarn-on-yarn friction and high values for crimps per inch, crimp elongation and ratio of crimps per inch to turns per inch. Triclinic X-ray diffraction patterns show a marked increase in the .alpha.-crystalline form during texturing.
A crystal mounting structure for a water-proof watch comprising a bezel provided with a projection having an inner diameter smaller than the outer diameter of a glass crystal. A first sealing member is interposed between the bezel and glass crystal and a second sealing member is interposed between the bezel and a case. A mounting ring is provided between the glass crystal and the case for holding the glass crystal on the surface thereof opposite the projection whereby the crystal is clamped between the projection and the ring.
A watch case is so designed that its outer surface can be ground withoutthe risk of damage to that surface of the case which engages the bezel.Corresponding modification of the bezel results in a decrease in itswidth, and in a decrease in the overall diameter of the watch.
A watertight watch case for rectangular watches having a circular threaded aperture in one side thereof dimensioned to receive a circular case back. Gaskets are provided between the watch crystal and said watch case and between portions of the case back and watch case. The watch crystal is engaged against its respective gasket through intermediate members formed of rigid material positioned between the case back and said watch crystal.
A crystal is secured in a watch case in a fluid tight manner by means of a bushing of compressible semirigid material such as nylon. The bushing fits into an annular recess at the front of the watch case and is pressed tightly against an annular wall of the recess by a compression ring which fits into an inner portion of the bushing and overlies the peripheral portion of the watch dial. The crystal fits into an outer portion of the bushing and is positioned axially by the compression ring. A tension ring surrounds an outer portion of the bushing and presses it tightly against the periphery of the crystal to provide a fluid tight seal.
An electronic wrist watch with an alarm has a buzzer provided on the outside of a watch case, a perforated cover which covers said buzzer, an excitation circuit which drives said buzzer, apparatus for operating the excitation circuit at some predetermined time, and a small-size dry cell battery for supplying the oscillating power of said buzzer. The cover is coextensive with the watch case. An adjustment for controlling the buzzer volume is provided in one embodiment.
The sounds of the alarm are produced by a membrane exposed to the atmosphere and against which strikes a vibrating blade located in a recess provided in the outer surface of a piece which constitutes a section of an envelope tightly surrounding the watch movement, the latter being located in a recess provided in the inner surface of said piece.
The alarm device of the watch comprises a switch controlled by the watch movement for switching on the alarm at the desired time. This switch is mounted directly on the watch movement coaxially to the watch hands. The remaining elements of the alarm device (buzzer, battery, switch, interrupter, setting mechanism) are all together carried by a supporting member arranged for receiving the watch movement and holding it firmly within the watch case.
An electronic alarm wrist watch comprises a piezoelectric oscillator which vibrates the watch dial, crystal, or parts of the bezel such as the crystal mounting ring to produce an audible sound at predetermined times. The piezoelectric oscillator is energized by a low or high voltage power oscillator.
A vehicular gas turbine engine has gas generator and power turbine sections, the latter having nozzle vanes which are adjustable to control power turbine speed and turbine temperature, as well as idle and engine braking phases. The subject system controls the adjustment of the nozzle vanes of the power turbine section. The system has a fluid pressure responsive vane actuator with a servo valve and positioning means therefor which are responsive to fluid pressure controlled in part by the throttle of the engine and in part by the speed of operation of the gas generator and power turbine sections of the engine. The servo valve positioning means is connected with the servo valve and vane actuator by linkage which is also responsive to movement of engine throttle means. The servo valve positioning means responds to fluid pressure the application of which is controlled by valve means actuated in accordance with speeds of the gas generator and power turbine sections of the engine.
A control system for gas turbines comprising a gas generator associated with a variable geometry unit such as variable guide vanes upstream of the free-power turbine of a two-shaft engine having a heat exchanger or a variable geometry thrust nozzle for a turbojet engine. The control system adjusts the working line of the gas generator to each related speed by variation of the geometry by utilizing the function q.sub.1 .sup.. p.sub.o1 =  f(T.sub.o1) .sup.. p.sub.o3 .sup..alpha. kFor positioning the gas generator working line and for limiting acceleration or fuel supply.
A turbine engine control system, including a fuel control is provided with a fuel inlet, a fuel metering valve assembly responsive to electrical signals generated in response to engine speed and temperature and indicia of operator power request, a fuel bypass valving means for returning unmetered fuel from the area of the fuel metering valve assembly to an area of low pressure fuel, a compressor discharge pressure sensing means tending to further close the bypass valving means as compressor discharge pressure increases, and a pressure responsive means responsive to the differential in pressures which meters the fuel for opening said bypass valving means in order to achieve a rate of metered fuel flow corresponding to compressor discharge pressure; a variable nozzle assembly within an associated turbine engine is variably opened and closed by related control sections responsive at least in part to engine operating parameters.
A gas turbine power plant includes an electric starter for cranking the engine and an electrical control system, both energized from a storage battery. The control system regulates the operation of the engine and includes a fuel valve solenoid and an atomizing air valve solenoid which are electrically energized. When the engine is started, these devices are energized along with the starter. Because of the heavy current required to operate the starter, the other electromagnetic devices are energized slightly before the starter to allow them to pull in while battery voltage is still at a normal level. The control system is energized by a first relay and amplifier or driver circuit and the starter by a second relay and amplifier or driver circuit. The starter amplifier circuit includes a capacitor which delays its operation for approximately 1/20 second after that of the other amplifier.
A control system for a turbojet engine which provides a single on-off switch to initiate start-up and shutdown phases of operation of the engine. The control system has a plurality of sensing elements and time delay electrical switches and valves interconnected to automatically control operation of auxiliary components of the engine, such as pumps, motors and fans, and the engine in proper sequence as well as monitor their operations during start-up, sustained and shutdown phases of operation of the engine. The system also has various failsafe circuits which include sensing elements which are set or adjusted to automatically effect shutdown of the engine upon malfunction during any of the phases of operation of the engine.
A controlled burning squib arrangement is presented wherein a first-stage ignition is used to heat an adjacent second-stage deflagrator such that the explosive components are substantially converted to gas in a first chamber prior to entering an expandable second chamber. Such arrangements are particularly useful in thrusters designed to drive pistons, bellows, or flexible membranes in lateral displacement mechanisms.
A direction and flow control valve for use in a central fluid power load responsive system having plurality of loads. The valve maintains a selected constant flow level for control of both positive and negative loads, irrespective of the change in the load magnitude or change in the fluid pressure, supplied to the valve. System is powered by a single variable volume pump equipped with a load responsive control, which automatically maintains pump discharge pressure at a level higher than the pressure required by the system's largest load. Each direction and flow control valve is equipped with a differential pressure regulating control, which is responsive to the load pressure for controlling the negative loads and preferably a second differential pressure regulating control for controlling the positive loads.
A combined rotary internal combustion engine and steam turbine which includes a compressor unit consisting of a spherical housing having a pair of combustion chambers formed on opposite sides thereof and a spherical core repeatedly mounted in the housing. Circular veins are slidably mounted in the core and are presser forced into engagement with the walls of the housing and the combustion chambers during rotation of the core. Explosive gases are exploded in each of the chambers to force the veins therethrough. Cooling water for the housing collects as steam and the exhaust gases from the combustion chambers along with the steam is fed into a semi-spherical turbine mounted on the shaft carrying the spherical core. The internal combustion exhaust gases and the steam mixes in the exhaust to reduce pollution.
Engine apparatus operative to convert the chemical energy of a combustible fuel into mechanical energy, and useful both in propelling automotive vehicles and in other environments in which conventional internal combustion engines have utility. The engine apparatus is divided into three operational phases or modules which are generally independent of each other, thereby permitting improvement in overall engine performance both as respects efficiency or power delivery and as respects more complete combustion of fuel and less noxious exhaust emissions. The operational phases include a compression phase in which atmospheric air is compressed; a storage phase in which the compressed fluids are held captive for subsequent use; and a utilization phase in which the compressed fluids (air and fuel at this point) are ignited to produce combustion gases that are then used in application to a turbine wheel or torque ring to produce output torque.
The process consists in obtaining high torque, rotary power from initial (high energy) fragments of expansion-produced work which is obtained by allowing just a limited pressure-drop of successive segments of a highly expansible gas. The rest of the work which could be obtained from more complete expansion may be extracted in some other way, as by segmental expansion in successive chambers and/or by it driving a turbine, and then these secondary outputs may be added to the first. Thus, in comparison with the output curve of the full stroke of a piston engine, here only the initial, nearly vertical segment of the total expansion curve is "severed" from the whole and is used to pace at high torque, a rotary drive shaft. Structurally, this is by the use of one or more successive, shallow, arcuately elongated, curcumferential-stepwise expansion chambers in a sliding vane, rotary engine, in place of the wedge-shaped chambers of the past. The latter resulted in low-torque output partly because they tried to expose as large as possible a contact area of the sliding vane, and the associated outward or radial gas-expansion in the wedge-chamber produced no obtainable work from such radial movement; also, the intended, nearly complete gas-expansion resulted in an "average"  low-torque output because most of it was obtained from the flat end of the pressure-volume curve. The present process is applicable to both internal combustion and non-combustion (e.g. compressed air or steam) rotary engines of the sliding vane type, for which several new constructions are provided. Advantage is also obtained by use of a molded carbon facing for the rotor and the combustion chambers.
An external power producing method and apparatus are provided in which a mass of a condensable fluid is heated and preferably superheated to a vapor at a predetermined working temperature and pressure and a portion thereof is directed into a positive displacement engine or turbine-pressure recovery diffuser set, where it does non-expansive work. A portion of the superheated or heated vapor at working pressure and temperature is expanded in a work producing expansion device, after which the expanded fluid is condensed. The condensate or a weight equivalent thereof is directed into the superheated or heated condensable fluid in the positive displacement engine, or into the diffuser of the turbine-pressure recovery diffuser set. The mass of fluid from the positive displacement engine or turbine is then directed into the superheater or heater for the mass of fluid.
This invention relates to the regenerative pre-heating of feed liquids by expanded heating vapor discharged from heat engines of vapor power plants within velocity-accelerated contact heat exchangers. The regenerative Rankine cycle invention may operate with any suitable working fluid such as steam or organic vapors, and has potential application to both stationary and vehicular power plant systems.
Steam or other condensable vapor heated to a predetermined temperature at a predetermined pressure and having a given entropy is expanded in part in a work producing zone to a lower pressure and then condensed while the remaining part is expanded in a second zone; and following expansion, water is added thereto, with or without addition, or following withdrawal, of a portion of steam at the same state as the second portion of steam after expansion, to form a weight of steam greater than that introduced into the second zone but at a lower entropy, using the work of expansion in the second zone to compress the steam expanded in the second zone, plus the further portion of added steam, when such addition of steam is made, or minus the portion removed, when such removal is made, plus the added water, to the original predetermined pressure.
A hydraulic drive telescopic boom is disclosed including two hydraulic piston-cylinder units connected between two telescopic boom sections and including fluid connections between the piston-cylinder units providing power transmission of hydraulic fluid from a pump to a load motor on the outer end of one boom section so as to substantially eliminate the need for flexible power conduits.
Chemical reactions, requiring heat are effected without air pollution contributions at reaction sites in underground cavities which are uniquely located to take advantage of little known and rarely occurring subterranean heat supply and heat conducting characteristics of certain geological structures extending in thermal continuity with heat sources far below reach of modern bore hole drilling techniques. Reactants are fed to the cavity and products are removed therefrom by means of passageways through bore holes extending from the earth's surface into the cavities. The activities are located at such depths, in highly heat conductive mineral spires or domes or the like which occur in thermal continuity with othewise inaccessible geological formations comprising unlimited sources of earth core heat, as to draw upon such unlimited supplies of heat at such rates and temperatures as will promote the desired chemical reaction.
Sand drains are provided in low permeability compressible stratum to accelerate drainage of water and settlement which occurs when the stratum is subjected to loading. To form the sand drain with a minimum of disturbance to the particles surrounding the drain, a heavy, elongated bailer having downwardly and upwardly directed nozzles is raised and lowered repeatedly. Such repeated motion of the bailer produces a pulsating cutting action with a water jet discharged under high pressure from the downward nozzle to remove particles of the stratum and form a hole through the stratum. The bailer motion also produces a pulsating hole cleaning action of water jets discharged under high pressure from the upward nozzles. The water jets from the upward nozzles carry the particles out of the hole and also expose the interstices between particles forming the wall of the hole. When the hole is formed to the desired depth, the bailer is kept at the bottom of the hole to flush the particles from the hole, is removed from the hole and is then lowered for another flush cycle. As the bailer is removed from the hole, water from the upward jets washes the walls of the hole to keep the interstices between the particles forming the wall of the hole open. The hole is then slowly back filled with coarse sand which fills the hole at a rate such that the interstices remain open.
This disclosure relates to a sheeting arrangement which includes a structural frame work of which portions are in the form of vertical tubular members or pipes which are so constructed so as to facilitate the driving or pulling of the sheeting arrangement without unduly stressing the structural frame.
An adjustable trench showing device is disclosed wherein the separable side and endwalls are formed as modules with releasable attaching means whereby the device may be formed of varying lengths vertically and horizontally.
Reinforcements mats for tunnel boring are prepared in the form of grid structures of crossing reinforcement rods and additional reinforcing profile members, typically angles with their apices facing transverse to the tunnel axis and welded to the reinforcement rods; the mats are shaped to fix approximately the tunnel outlined and located adjacent each other as the tunnel boring machine bores the tunnel; concrete is then sprayed against the mats, between the tunnel walls and the mats and covering the mats. To join the mats together, terminal ends of reinforcement rods are left free to slide against and adjacent rods of a preceding mat; the angles may be located to slide within each other.
A curved quadrilateral corrugated plate for constructing flexible segmented curved-section structures such as structural plate pipes. The plate comprises on each of its four edge portions assembly apertures which are formed in the flanks of the corrugations. The positions of the apertures on the flanks are such that when two identical plates are assembled by overlapping their edge portions, all the pairs of apertures of the plates are respectively in coaxial superimposed relation to each other.A flexible curved-section segmented structure comprising an assembly of said corrugated plates is disclosed.
Flotation is provided for a subsea well riser conduit. A plurality of open bottom but otherwise airtight buoyancy gas receiving chambers are mounted about the riser conduits. A gas conduit connects each chamber with a source of compressed gas on the drilling vessel. Valves are provided in the gas conduit for introducing gas in selectable amounts into the chambers to displace water entrained therein out the open bottom of the chamber to provide a selectable amount of buoyancy to the riser conduit. The gas valve includes an associated float for holding open the valve when the water level is above a predetermined level in the chamber and for closing the valve when the water level falls below the level to avoid loss of gas out the open bottom of the chamber. The flange which forms the top wall of the chamber is adapted to allow adjacent riser conduits to be fit together. Additionally, the chambers and the associated flanges provide a passageway for associated drilling control apparatus.
The attended drilling system comprises a vertical array of objects without the conventional conductor pipe extending from floor to surface of a body of water to encase the drill string. The principal contributing objects of the array considered in the present application comprises: a drilling station that is to be established upon the floor, a control station stably maintained at the surface and a support station adapted to function between as an elevator. These stations are transported to a site upon a barge adapted to the method of drydock handling of buoyant vessels. Means to sectionalize the drilling station to permit variations to its assembly and the relocation of the portable sections minimizes lost time. Adjusting, monitoring and control means are provided and constructed to function in a prolonged underwater environment.
A method of and terminal structure for oil storage at sea are characterised in that the structure is constructed as an elongated closed vessel, internally subdivided into separate compartments which have flooding valves enabling the structure to float like a ship for towing to its site of use, and then to be flooded sequentially with sea water to cause the vessel to tip to a vertical attitude and settle on the sea bed, being grounded by its own weight. Oil is stored in the compartments with concomitant displacement of sea water, and the vessel can be exhausted of liquid and refloated for removal if desired.
A flotation structure in the shape of an elongate bottle is cast in concrete as well as are sets of prestressed rods disposed at opposite ends of the structure. A plurality of such structures is joined together in sets by coupling devices provided at opposite ends of the prestressed rods to yield a highly stable floating platform since the center of buoyancy is well below surface wave turbulence. The necks of the bottle-shaped flotation structures have reduced cross-sectional area to minimize the possibility of an adverse reaction to surface wave action, e.g., rolling or heaving reactions within each flotation structure enables a selective shifting of ballasts to facilitate launching and alignment when several structures are joined together without requiring any elaborate support facilities. Sets of flotation structures are hinged together to form runways or include spaces vacant of flotation structures to form dry docks or reduced capacity platforms.
An off-shore drilling platform for hydrocarbons has an oscillating column pivoted at its base and kept stable by upward hydrostatic pressure, with hydrocarbon storage in the column. The difference in the densities of water and hydrocarbons in the column is compensated whereby the forces acting on the base of the column and on the pivot remain substantially constant. The column has two compartments, a lower one filled with water, and an upper one forming a float. Compensating means are pumps and valves arranged so that when the hydrocarbon is introduced into the lower compartment it drives out water and corresponding mass of liquid is pumped into the upper compartment. The pumps and valves are servo-controlled to the levels of the two liquids. A gas pocket over the hydrocarbon is kept at constant pressure by a pumping system linked to the servo-control.
A reservoir of prestressed reinforced concrete preferably for storing hydrocarbons, adapted so that it can be submerged in the sea so that it rests freely on the bottom thereof, said reservoir comprising a series of cylindrical walls into which radiating partitions fit so that they bear on a central pillar formed by two circular slabs fitting into the walls and the partitions. The bottom of the reservoir has a reinforcement designed to receive a supporting pad or cushion, and the top of the reservoir carries at least one columnar support having a working platform at its upper end. This platform remains above the surface of the sea after the reservoir has been submerged. Each support is in the form of a hollow shaft and serves to carry means connecting the tank with safety elements on the work platform. Further, each shaft is provided with first means which allow the tank to be submerged in the sea so that it can rest freely on the bottom thereof and second means which allow the tank to "breath" by enabling the safety elements to be brought into communication with the free atmosphere.Preferably each shaft has a number of cells therein which can be successively flooded with sea water to lower the reservoir to the sea bottom in stages and desirably the reservoir is made from prestressed reinforced concrete.
An offshore drilling platform has a column which can be articulated by a universal joint to a base anchored to the seabed. The column is subdivided into a plurality of superposed ballasting compartments. Means are provided for external control, from a compressed air source, of the flooding or emptying of at least one of the compartments. One compartment close to the articulated end of the column can be flooded during positioning the structure so that the water compresses the air before it. Means are provided to allow the air to escape thereafter or be further pressurized to drive out the water. Floats which can be partly filled with water can be arranged radially around the column and emptied during the setting up operation. Oil dashpot type shock-absorber means can be provided for damping impact against the base.
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for drying compressed gas that is to be used at or near the supply pressure in which the temperature sensor of a thermostatically controlled valve responds to the temperature of the incoming wet gas leaving a heat exchanger by cycling on and off a supply of gas to a vortex tube. The cold side of the vortex tube is the prime source of refrigerant for the heat exchanger supplemented by the partially dried gas following removal of the condensate therefrom which is recycled so as to re-enter the exchanger at a point where its temperature is the same or slightly lower than that of the prime source of refrigerant. The invention also contemplates exhausting the hot gases from the vortex tube to the atmosphere outside the main dryer housing while dumping the cold vortex tube fraction inside a housing within the latter as it leaves the heat exchanger. The invention further encompasses using a portion of the incoming wet gas as the supply for the vortex tube.
A system for maintaining a liquid head of cryogen in a separator vessel for a 2-phase cryogenic fluid comprising in combination a separator vessel having discharge lines for liquid and vapor in the bottom and top sections, respectively; a diaphragm-operated vent valve disposed in the vapor discharge line; and a pressure regulating valve to control the flow of cryogen from the source of cryogenic fluid to the separator vessel. A pneumatic computing relay is connected to the vessel in combination with an amplifier to actuate the vapor vent valve such that the valve will open and close in response to changes of liquid level in the vessel.
A cooling element that is positioned in the trunk of a vehicle and cooled by the existing air conditioning system of the vehicle, which element is enclosed by an insulated chest that may be selectively inserted or removed from the trunk of the vehicle, and refrigerates the air in the chest. Manual control valves and automatic temperature control valves control the temperature of air refrigeration in the chest and the chest may also include a temperature controlled vent for admitting air from the outer environment into the chest to maintain desired air temperatures therein.
An air conditioning apparatus having an auxiliary air conditioning apparatus mountable on a structure connectible to a vehicle, such as a camper mountable on the vehicle or a trailer towable by the vehicle, or mountable on a larger vehicle such as a motor home or van having a primary and a secondary space which are preferably cooled by separate means. The auxiliary apparatus has an evaporator, means for circulating air from the interior of such structure or the secondary space of the large vehicle through the evaporator and back into the interior or such secondary space, and a condenser through which air from the atmosphere is circulated to cool refrigerant fluid; and a primary air conditioning apparatus mountable on the vehicle which includes a compressor, a primary condenser and a primary evaporator, the two condensers being connected in a series to cool the refrigerant fluid compressed by the compressor and the evaporators being connected in parallel and so arranged that both will always be supplied with liquid refrigerant during operation of the apparatus. The apparatus also includes suitable control means for selectively operating the auxiliary and primary air conditioning apparatus for cooling the interior of the vehicle and such structure or the primary and secondary spaces of a large vehicle, which may be the space occupied by the driver of the large vehicle and a separate or connecting secondary space, and means for independently operating the primary air conditioning apparatus without the auxiliary apparatus being physically connected thereto.
A refrigerant evaporator having a fin and tube assembly integral with an expansion valve and a back pressure valve.
The present disclosure relates to an automotive air conditioner system which is arranged to have a throttle valve including a temperature-responsive power operating means situated in the refrigerant suction line for throttling refrigerant flow from the evaporator when the evaporator temperature drops toward a value low enough to cause ice formation on the evaporator fin surfaces. The throttle valve is preferably but not necessarily located upstream of the actuator means of the thermostatic expansion valve. The power operating temperature responsive means includes a wax filled container and a slidable piston which cooperatively move a valve member toward a valve seat when the temperature of the refrigerant in the suction line decreases to a moisture freezing level. The throttling effect prevents the compressor from pulling down the pressure and temperature within the evaporator to a level where ice or frost could form on the surfaces of the fins of the evaporator.
A combination liquid trapping suction accumulator and evaporator pressure regulator device used intermediate the compressor and evaporator in a vapor-compression refrigeration system as a protective device for the compressor. The device is characterized by the positioning of the evaporator pressure regulator chamber intermediate the inlet and outlet ports of the accumulator housing. Thus, evaporator pressure regulation is accomplished simultaneously with liquid accumulation in a compact and readily serviceable, unitary housing.
An automobile air conditioning system having a liquid accumulator located between the evaporator and the compressor to receive refrigerant from the evaporator. A temperature responsive actuator is connected to a throttling valve in the accumulator to regulate the flow of refrigerant from the evaporator and to maintain refrigerant temperature in the evaporator above a level corresponding to freezing temperatures on the external surfaces of the evaporator. The actuator contains water or a water based solution placed in good heat transfer with refrigerant in the accumulator. When refrigerant falls to a predetermined temperature, the water begins to freeze and the resultant expansion moves the throttling valve toward a more closed position.
Each of the valves shown has parallel flow paths through the body with an expansion valve in the line leading to the evaporator thermostatically controlled by conditions in the return line. A second valve is positioned in the return line and controlled in response to a condition (temperature or pressure) which is indicative of conditions (temperature and pressure) in the evaporator. This arrangement prevents evaporator freezing. The valves are suited for flange fitting by reason of having all ports parallel enabling the valve to be secured to the evaporator (on one side) and to the compressor suction line and the condenser outlet on the other side. Since the thermostatic expansion valve can be "externally equalized" internally and all control functions are incorporated in the single body, the number of connections to be made by the system assembler are minimized. One version is provided with a receiver-drier which can be changed without disturbing other system connections.
A refrigerated cabinet having a detachable frost shield which is easily removable for defrosting and quickly replaceable for further use. The frost shield has a panel which serves to cover a liner surface of a refrigerated wall in the cabinet. A mounting means is provided having one or more studs secured in a refrigerated wall so that the studs project from the liner surface thereof, and having a corresponding number of wedge-shaped embossments on the shield, the studs and embossments being placed in such a manner that they can be substantially aligned. As the frost shield is placed in a use position within the refrigerated cabinet, the embossments are engaged by the corresponding studs, thereby forcing the panel of the shield tightly against the liner surface. The studs and embossments can be quickly disengaged at a later desirable time to remove the frost shield for defrosting. The detachable frost shield can then once again be placed in the refrigerated cabinet for further use.
A refrigerator comprising a cabinet having side, bottom and top walls, foamed insulation and a refrigeration system comprising an evaporator positioned at the top of one of the side walls, a molded in place groove opening toward the interior of the cabinet in which is located refrigerant lines leading to the compressor and condenser positioned beneath the bottom wall, a cover strip closing the groove on the interior side thereof for enclosing the refrigerant lines, an opening in the bottom wall through which the refrigerant lines extend to the compressor and a fluid tight seal means sealing the refrigerant lines to the bottom wall at this opening.
A combination dental material mixing slab holder and cooler which includes a base plate having a pair of spaced, upwardly projecting ribs for receiving a mixing slab and a central well, a sealed container in said central well and a reusable heat sink means within said sealed container.
The propeller shaft and the drive unit shaft in a ship's drive system and interconnected by a coupling having two 90.degree. offset forks, each fork having a pin whereby the pin on each fork is interposed between the respective other pin and the shaft end to which the other pin connects directly, the two pins are interconnected by a tension member.
A plunging constant velocity universal joint having seal means for retaining lubricant therein is provided with a valve to release air from and admit air to the interior of the joint during operation. The valve opens under centrifugal action when the joint is rotating and can also open when the joint is not rotating to release excess internal pressure.
A universal joint has two forks and a cross the trunnions of which mount needle roller bearings secured in the forks.The cross trunnions are provided with through axial passages which communicate with a hole formed centrally in the cross and accomodating a relief valve.The relief valve is essentially a cylindrical stem made of a resilient oil-resistant material and having an interference fit in the cross central hole. It seals off the whole universal joint and each individual bearing.
An automatic yarn feed rate control system for a warp beam knitting machine. The system comprises a digital pulse generator, a pulse multiplier, and a runner length multiplier coupled in series to the knitting machine crankshaft, for generating a digital pulse train, the number of pulses of which is proportional to the knitting machine knitting speed and the length of yarn consumed by the knitting machine during a predetermined knitting cycle. A plurality of interconnected counters adjusts the number of pulses of this pulse train to produce another pulse train, the number of pulses of which is inversely proportional to the instantaneous diameter of the knitting warp. The pulses of this latter pulse train are transmitted to a multivibrator and amplifier and drive a stepper motor which rotates the warp beam of the knitting machine at a speed which is inversely proportional to the warp diameter to maintain a constant yarn feed rate.
A device for automatically regulating the thread consumption of warp knitting machines in which plural warp beams are propelled from a mainshaft by respective variable drives is provided. This device consists of electrical contact means for determining the r.p.m. of the mainshaft, together with a setting device means for fixing the desired speed of thread consumption. A control mechanism is also provided for part of the device which includes electrical impulse generator means on the respective warp beams for indicating thread consumption together with a counter means including subtracting mechanism means for measuring the difference between desired and actual values of thread consumption and having output signal means for adjusting the r.p.m. of individual warp beams through said variable drive. The device further includes switching means for adapting the control mechanism means for successively regulating the r.p.m. of plural warp beams of one or more warp knitting machines through connection with the electrical impulse generator means and the variable drives of the respective warp beams, and means for causing switching of said control mechanism means from one warp beam to another in response to signal from the electrical impulse generator on the warp beam last regulated at the time of switching.
A knitting machine yarn pay off control system having a first presettable counter indexed in a subtraction direction by a first pulse generator to count the amount of yarn paid off from a driven yarn spool, a second presettable counter indexed in a subtraction direction by a second pulse generator to count the number of cycles of operation of the knitting machine and a bi-directional stepping motor automatically connected to be indexed by a pulse generator--after one of the counters reaches zero and before the other counter reaches zero--for correcting for any difference between the actual pay off rate and a desired pay off rate pre-established by the original settings of the counters.
A smooth surface heating apparatus is provided having a heat spreader plate of high thermal conductivity coated, at least on its upper surface, with a thermochromic glass-ceramic material containing a predominant crystalline phase of lithium disilicate in a glassy matrix and having a coefficient of expansion in the range of 80-120.times.10.sup..sup.-7 per .degree.C. The thermochromic property is obtained by the addition of cadmium sulfide and selenium preferably with zinc oxide to the batch ingredients. An insulated electrical resistance heating element and a reinforcing member are attached to the underside of the heat spreader plate. A reflector pan is provided beneath the heating element to direct the heat in an upward direction.
Textile yarn is withdrawn from a yarn package as demanded for knitting by a plurality of needles forming a portion of a knitting machine producing textile fabric, through selected correlation of signals indicating the speed of the knitting machine and the speed of yarn supply or indicating the tension of yarn being supplied and the desired tension level for yarn to be supplied.
A system for feeding a roving strand to a demand point where the system employs a driven capstan roller for receiving the strand from a strand supply. The strand is also passed around a dancer roller which is mounted on a pivotal arm, and then over a resin applicator to the demand point. The pivotal arm is mounted at a pivot and operatively actuates a rotary transducer which, in turn, controls the speed of the motor operating the capstan. Accordingly, as the demand for the strand increases, the pivotal arm is biased upwardly which, in turn, causes the rotary transducer to increase the speed of the motor operating the capstan. Constant tension is maintained on the pivotal arm by means of a cord which is connected to the arm and to the piston of a pneumatic cylinder. Air biases the piston in one direction causing the arm to be urged downwardly. Thus, by changing the air pressure against the piston, it is possible to change the tension maintained on the pivotal arm.
A control system using electronic components to detect and control the operation of a knitting machine. The control system operates to reliably control the length of yarn which is "let off" or removed from a warp (yarn supply) in accordance with the operation of the knitting machine.
A method and apparatus for withdrawing the knitwork from the rotating needle cylinder through a withdrawal tube rotating at a speed substantially equal to it. The tube is provided with a baffle dividing the tube into an axial through passage and a pocket therein for receiving a portion of the knitwork. A vacuum is applied to the pocket to suck the leading end of the knitwork thus doubling the knitwork about the baffle, and allowing the knitwork to rotate about the central axis conjointly with the needle cylinder. At the same time the vacuum is applied to the end of the withdrawal tube to pull the knitwork, thus held at the leading end in the pocket and at the trailing end in the needles, until the knitwork is completed. By selectively releasing the trailing end or the leading end, the knitwork when finished may be withdrawn fully either leading or trailing end first or even in folded condition.
An anti-twist device for preventing twisting of hose as knitted on a circular seamless hose knitting machine of the kind including a stationary take-down tube along which a hose is pulled under suction. The device includes a rotary cylindrical dust shield arranged co-axially with respect to the take-down tube and driven at at least the same rotational speed as that of the needle cylinder of the machine. Fingers, pivotally mounted on the dust shield, are movable about fulcrum points to operative positions in which they interrupt the passage of a knitted hose downwardly through the shield and the take-down tube and to inoperative positions in which they release the pressed-off hose for free passage through the dust shield and the take-down tube. The dust shield is driven from an independent electric motor located exteriorly thereof.
A tensioning device for use with a circular knitting machine includes a perforate duct extending below the needle cylinder and an imperforate discharge conduit extending from the lower end of the perforate duct. A control valve enables suction to be applied selectively to the exterior of the perforate duct and to the discharge conduit. In operation suction is applied initially to the discharge conduit until the leading end of a stocking enters the discharge conduit. The suction is then applied to the perforate duct and the stocking is thereby made to cling to the internal surface. When the stocking is completed suction is once again applied to the discharge conduit by the control valve.
This apparatus is particularly adapted to use with circular hosiery knitting machines and operates to prevent twisting of the hosiery fabric as it is being produced on the knitting machine. The apparatus includes an article retaining chamber with a rotating article support in a medial portion of the retaining chamber and on which the lower portion of the hosiery article is accumulated during the knitting process. Upon completion of the knitting of the article, the article is withdrawn through a vacuum source positioned above the article support and removed to a suitable collection point.
A sanitary diaper handling apparatus which is configured so as to fit standard size diaper pails and which will fit over most toilet bowls, in which the diapers are pre-washed. A standard sized diaper pail lid is utilized, the lid having a section of see-through material, and two additional openings, each of the openings having a raised lip so that standard rubber gloves may be securely attached to the lid, the rubber gloves extending below the lid itself. This arrangement allows the user to pre-wash soiled diapers and to place them in the standard diaper pail without touching the diapers with the bare hands.
This invention relates to a two-part protective cover for padlocks, one part of which comprises a sleeve open at the bottom and partially covered on top, sized and shaped so as to only accept the shackle and body of a padlock passed up through the open bottom, and a second part consisting of a subassembly that includes a lid and base detachably connectable to opposite open ends of the sleeve and a flexible connector linking said base and lid together. The invention also encompasses a protective cover of the type aforementioned wherein the second part comprises a lid with a pair of apertures therein positioned to pass the parallel legs of the shackle one at a time and cooperate therewith when mounted thereon to prevent removal of the body through the open bottom of the sleeve.
A lock mechanism mounted in a casing including a bolt member slidably mounted in the casing for movement between lock and unlock positions. A plurality of latch levers and at least one master lever are pivotally mounted in the casing by means of a pivot pin. The latch levers engage and restrain movement of the bolt member when biased in one direction. A spring means is provided for biasing the latch levers and master lever in one direction. The spring means is of novel construction having a frame portion and a plurality of spring arms formed integrally therewith. The spring arms are arranged in two banks with the spring arms of one bank extending towards and in staggered relationship with the spring arms of the other bank. A key guide member is rotatably mounted in the casing to receive a key which when rotated will pivot the latch levers (or the master lever) against the bias of the spring arms of the spring member to thereby move the latch levers out of restraining engagement with the bolt member. The pivot pin is journaled in opposite walls of the lock casing and the master lever is fixedly secured to the pivot pin.
Helical ducting is fabricated from edge-precorrugated ribbon-stock drawn through a novel die-set to extrude an interlocked seam of a substantially uniform 5-ply thickness with the plys equidistantly overlapping abutting edges of the helical rings of the ducting.
An improved molding device for jet-forming a workpiece which includes laterally adjustable die segments, a displaceable tapered jet spray guide member, a jet spray nozzle for introducing a jet stream into the mold cavity and means for pressurizing a liquid introduced into the mold cavity through the jet nozzle.
A pressure forming device comprises a liquid pressure chamber which communicates with a mold-forming member having a mold cavity into which an article to be formed is inserted. A plunger is mounted for sliding sealing movement in respect to a wall bounding or communicating with the pressure chamber so that it may be moved rapidly in an impulsive movement to displace liquid of the chamber against the member to be molded in the mold cavity to form it to the configuration of the cavity. Means are provided for regulating the movement of a hammer to strike the plunger member to move it in an impulsive movement, and various means are shown for the construction of a mold cavity member and for the means in holding the member to be molded to permit its selected deformation.
A method of discharge forming bulged articles comprising the steps of inserting a hollow tube-like metallic workpiece in an axially movable mold member, releasing an energy by high voltage discharge so that said movable mold member may be caused to move axially thereof toward a fixed mold member, and compressing said hollow tube-like workpiece axially thereof to cause a portion of the wall of the workpiece to expand outwardly whereby a tube-like article with a bulge can be produced.
A cyclic rolling mill is disclosed wherein one or more back-up work rolls of small diameter concurrently traverse, and gradually approach, an anvil. The anvil comprises a plurality of rounded crests parallel to the axis of the workrolls and separated by valleys. The crests and valleys may be in the form of corrugations in a solid block, or they may be provided by a plurality of small diameter anvil rolls; and in the latter case individual adjustment thereof may be provided. A small amount of movement of the anvil, in the direction of strip travel, may be provided, with means to return the anvil to its starting position between working cycles. The work roll and its backing elements may be rocker mounted, and oscillated in a working and return stroke, in which case means are provided to remove the working roll from contact with the workpiece during its return stroke. A number of workrolls may also be mounted in cages about a backing roll.
A multistage rolling mill having a roll arrangement of the Sendzimir type with each of the upper and lower half roll grouping having two drive rolls employs a separate upper inner housing carrying the upper roll half and a separate lower inner housing carrying the lower roll half, with each of the inner housings being encompassed and mounted within a separate integral and rigid outer housing. A pass line adjusting means is provided between the outer housing and the upper inner housing, and a rolling reduction adjusting means is provided between the outer housing and the lower inner housing. Various leak proof valves are used to isolate the hydraulic fluid within the automatic adjusting system to maintain the mill spring constant high, and further for roll change a separate synchronizing fluid circuit is opened up to permit the lower inner housing to drop for roll change without distrubing the initial set-up of parallelism between the upper and lower housings. The back-up rolls may be eccentrically adjustable, and the intermediate rolls may be tapered for edge adjustment.
The rolls in one of two rows of rolls in a straightening machine are mounted in supports that extend radially back away from the rolls. Secured to the outer ends of adjusting screws threaded in the rear ends of these supports are pistons disposed in stationary fluid pressure cylinders, in the rear ends of which are slidably mounted rotatable shafts that are connected with the screws. Conduits connected with these cylinders behind the pistons receive fluid pressure to hold the pistons against the front ends of its cylinders. Connected with the conduits are means actuated by an increase in the fluid pressure, caused by excessive pressure of a workpiece against the rolls, for releasing the increased pressure until the excessive pressure is removed. The fluid pressure in the conduits also can be reduced manually to permit the adjusting screws to be turned and to permit the pistons to be quickly moved back in their cylinders to open the roll pass.
Extrusion tool for the manufacture of hollow sections the said tool comprising a die cap with a bearing surface to form the outer contour of the hollow section and a core supported on the die cap or a one-piece core and die cap with at least one mandrel held by webs to form the inner contour of the hollow section, characterised in that a core shielding plate situated in front of the core in the direction of extrusion and provided with ports for the metal to be extruded, is separated by a stress relieving gap from the core at least at its area facing the mandrel.
A two piece die holder comprising an inner annular member (for holding an extrusion die) concentrically mounted and axially movable within an outer annular member. The outer annular member has a thickness dimension and configuration which allows the forward portion thereof to expand in a radially outward direction as the forward portion is forced against material to be extruded under extrusion pressure. With termination of the extrusion pressure, the outer annular member contracts so that the die holder and die can be withdrawn in tact through an extrusion cylinder or container at the completion of the extrusion cycle.
A thermal-extrusion machine is disclosed with an extrusion head for the production of metal sections and tubes, particularly of light copper-based alloys. The extrusion head comprises a core coaxially received in an aperture of an associated die. The core is supported by bridging means in the form of webs angularly equispaced about the axis thereof. A chamber is formed in the head and downstream of the webs, to transverse section of the chamber being sufficiently small to let the pressure of the material being extruded fuse the strands formed by the material passing the webs and reuniting in the chamber.
A die punch mounted upon the stationary bed of a sheet metal die forming press for piercing an opening through a vertical wall of the sheet metal workpiece while the formed workpiece still remains upon the bed part die during the upwards retraction stroke of the movable press ram following the ram down or workpiece forming stroke. The punch includes a support base fixed upon the press bed and a slider slidably mounted upon the base and having a punch element mounted upon its forward end for engaging the formed vertical wall. The slider is driven forwardly by a drive cam which is mounted upon the ram for movement therewith and which engages a cam member pivotally mounted upon the rear end of the slider. The cam member is pivoted out of the way by the drive cam during the movable ram down or forming stroke, so that the slider remains inoperative, i.e., unmoved, in its retracted position during the forming stroke. However, the cam member is driven forwardly by the drive cam during the ram upwards or retraction stroke, to thereby move the slider and operate the punch against the by now formed wall part of the workpiece.
A method of rolling metal comprising the placing together of at least two metal plates in overlapping relation so that as they are rolled each plate indents the other and at least one of the plates becomes a rolled product having relatively thin and relatively thick parts spaced in the direction of rolling. The rolled product may form a turbine blade blank with an integral root portion.
A method of manufacturing hollow compressor blades. A pair of forgings are first rough machined into flat blanks. Complimentary grooves are machined in one surface of each half, and the other surface is hot-formed to an airfoil shape. The grooved surface of each blank is machined to a flat plane, and the finished blanks are bonded together. Finally, the bonded blade is twist-formed and final-machined to produce a finished hollow compressor blade. A principal improvement over the prior art lies in bonding the two blanks before twist-forming is accomplished.
A rear axle housing comprises two longitudinal sections welded together, each section being produced by the process of first preshaping a rough billet into the general configuration of a forging blank, forging the blank in several steps into a flat shaped member and then forging the member into the general shape of the housing section. A minimum amount of machining is required to remove the excess material and finish the housing. A special apparatus is provided for performing the intermediate steps of forging the preformed billet into a shaped forging blank.
Repeated-action single-impact hammer having a cylinder that receives a reciprocating piston driven for translatory motion to deliver impacts upon rivets being headed. The free end of the cylinder carries a mechanism for centering the cylinder in respect of the stem of the rivet.
A vertically disposed press having two spaced apart vertical legs and also having a horizontal work support bed between the legs which is adjustable vertically so as to support a work piece beneath a hydraulic press carried by the frame. The bed is mounted in cantilever fashion by means of rollers at one end which ride up and down on opposite sides of one of the vertical legs. When the bed has been positioned at the proper elevation, it is easily locked in place to both of the legs for securely supporting the work piece in position. The press also includes a hydraulic cylinder connected by a tension member to one end of the bed and by means of which the bed can be easily and quickly adjusted in a vertical position along the vertical legs.
A mechanical press having a frame made up of a crown, front and back frame members beneath the crown, leg members beneath the frame members, and bridge members extending between the frame members at the bottom. A bed is moveably mounted in the space within the press frame at the bottom for adjustment toward and away from the crown. The crown carries counterrotating crankshafts connected by connecting rods with pistons slidably guided in cylinders in the head with a slide connected to the lower ends of the cylinders and being supported and guided solely thereby. An automatic feeding device is provided for feeding stock into the press and a belt drive is provided for driving the feeding device by a crankshaft of the press. Hydrostatic bearings are advantageously provided for the crankshaft bearing and for the pin portions of the crankshafts and between the cylinders and pistons that slide therein. The counterrotating crankshafts are provided with counter balancing means whereby the press is adapted to operate at high speeds.
There is disclosed herein brake instrumentalities and means for controlling the same which are associated with roll-feeding mechanism to regulate roll rotation of material fed therebetween, such mechanism being shown in this instance in association with a high-speed punch press, to which the strip material fed through the feeding mechanism is supplied for operation by the punch press, the precise positioning of the material being affected by the brake instrumentalities hereof which are adapted for incremental feeding of such material. The brake mechanism involves the provision of a compact housing in which are located a pressure plate, suitable friction plates, a brake disc which in turn is connected to at least one of the rolls through which the material is fed, all under the control of an hydraulic piston and cylinder arrangement which provides the power to actuate the brake mechanism under the control of certain hydraulic booster elements which are actuated in response to and in timed relation to motion of the crankshaft of the press by hydraulic means provided for such booster actuation and adjustable in accordance with the desired amount of rotation of the rolls to feed the said material to the aforementioned press.
The specification discloses an automated stamping press arrangement in which die sets are carried in a first storage unit from which unit the die sets can be selectively inserted into and removed from the stamping press. A second storage and handling unit carrying supplies of strip stock is provided adjacent the press and selectively presents a coil of strip stock to serve as the raw material from which stamped parts are manufactured. The feeding of the strip stock is controlled in conformity with the amount required on each stroke of the press for the respective die set in the press, and the number of press cycles is controlled to provide for a desired number of workpieces from a respective die set. A control system is provided utilizing, for example, a punched card which programs the operation of the press with respect to die selection, stock selection, press adjustments and feeding of the stock.
Four thermocouples are connected electrically in series in order to measure small differences in temperature between a specimen object and a reference object within a thermally controlled environment. One pair of thermocouples in direct thermal contact with specimen and reference objects, respectively, registers a net difference in temperature between the specimen object and the reference object. The net voltage produced by this first pair of thermocouples is proportional to the difference in temperature between the specimen object and the reference object due to both (1) the evolution or absorption of heat, and (2) the differences in the respective thermal environments. A second pair of thermocouples registers the difference in ambient temperature between locations near the first and second thermocouples. All four thermocouples are then connected in series, so that the differential measured by the second pair of thermocouples, when electrically subtracted fromthe differential measured by the first thermocouples, leaves a temperature differential value which is independent of extraneous temperature differences in the thermally controlled environment.
A control system for a breath tester is disclosed. The tester includes a chamber in which a breath sample is stored, a detector unit positioned to test breath therein and means for shielding the detector unit from the chamber while breath is flowing into the chamber and for unshielding the detector unit thereafter to provide a relatively quiescent breath sample to the detector. A purge pump is also provided. The control system includes means for sensing the breath flow into the chamber during the test and for automatically cutting off that flow, timing a period to allow a quiescent state to be reached and only then allowing the detector unit to be unshielded. It also employs the initial off-cycling of a thermostatically controlled heater, after the turning-on of the tester, to indicate the approach of operating conditions and includes interlocks to prevent improper operation and to ensure consistent results.
A compact, efficient, portable gas chromatograph system is disclosed in which the gas chromatographic column is disposed in a closed loop with an electrolytic hydrogen generator-separator. The output from the column containing the bands of analyzable materials dispersed in hydrogen carrier gas is passed through the tubular anode of the generator-separator. The hydrogen passes through the wall of the anode, across the electrolyte through the wall of the cathode and is collected and returned by way of the sample inlet to the inlet to the column. The analyzable material remaining stalled within the anode tube is swept into the detector by an auxiliary electrolytic hydrogen generator. A pressure transducer downstream from the anode develops an increased voltage signal in response to pressure drop which is applied to the controller for the auxiliary hydrogen generator to maintain a constant flow of hydrogen carrier gas within the closed loop circuit while also maintaining a flow of hydrogen sweep gas to the detector.
Sequential analytical determination of a vapor sample is performed by suspending the sample in a major amount of hydrogen carrier gas or a mixed carrier gas consisting of hydrogen and helium and passing the suspension through a gas chromatograph. More than 90 percent of the hydrogen carrier gas is removed from the effluent of the chromatograph by passing the effluent through a heated palladium tube before delivering to a detector such as a mass spectrometer. Removal of the hydrogen portion of the carrier gas through the wall of the tube may be enhanced by providing an oxygen containing atmosphere at the outside surface of the tube.
A system for leak testing a closed vehicle brake system by actuating pistons in a master cylinder. A fluid motor in a separate pneumatic plumbing circuit is automatically sequentially actuated extending a plunger engaging the pistons to pressurize the brake fluid in various degress as prescribed in a predetermined test procedure. A solid state electrical control circuit automatically sequences valves in the pneumatic fluid circuit providing desired brake fluid pressures during the leak test. The control circuit includes a digital converter applying a voltage determined by the position of the master cylinder piston at the beginning of a test time period which is continuously used as a reference in opposiion to a position responsive voltage regulated by the linear potentiometer during the test. The control circuit can include a selector switch to operate one of a plurality of separate pneumatic plumbing circuits, each being suited for a particular master cylinder design. In this manner, fluid leakage is accurately and immediately sensed and a fault signal is energized and the test aborted when unacceptable leakage occurs.
An automatic electrically controlled fluid plumbing test system including separate pneumatic and hydraulic fluid circuits and having application, in one form, to vehicle brake systems. The pneumatic fluid circuit contains solenoid valves that are cycled to selectively actuate a hydraulic fluid pressure-intensifying unit. The hydraulic fluid circuit also contains solenoid-controlled valves and initially supplies the fluid plumbing system with fluid at a line pressure of 20 to 200 p.s.i. completely filling the system. The pneumatic circuit supplies a first air pressure sufficient to actuate the intensifier and develop a relatively high fluid pressure P.sub.1 in the system under test, this pressure being approximately 2000 p.s.i. in a vehicle brake system. This pressure is held in the system under test for a time period sufficient to expand the fluid plumbing and test for mechanical defects. The pneumatic system then automatically cycles and supplies a second air pressure to the intensifier whereby a somewhat lower fluid pressure P.sub.2 is developed, this pressure being approximately 1600 p.s.i. in a vehicle brake system. The P.sub.2 fluid is held in the plumbing system for a time period sufficient to stabilize the plumbing and temporarily arrest all creep and expansion inherent in the lines. This pressure on the fluid is then automatically held in the portion of the plumbing being tested for a predetermined time period and any leakage occurring is registered on a leak meter. If the fluid-plumbing system is acceptable and meets a predetermined standard, electrical control circuitry automatically energizes apparatus for stamping or punching a card indicating approval. In the event a leak occurs; there is excessive air in the system; or in the case of a test concerning a vehicle brake system, the brake warning switch is defective; the cycle is automatically terminated. Upon completion of the test the control circuitry automatically reconditions the test apparatus for use on a subsequent fluid-plumbing system.
Apparatus for depressing the accelerator and brake pedals of a vehicle. The apparatus includes a test stand that is rigidly secured in the vehicle at a position proximate the accelerator and brake pedals for supporting accelerator and brake pedal actuators.The accelerator actuator includes a threaded shaft that is rotatably driven by a motor and engaged by a pawl so as to move axially as it is rotated, the threaded shaft being drivably coupled to the accelerator pedal so as to depress and release the accelerator pedal in accordance with the rotation of the threaded shaft. A solenoid is provided for disengaging the pawl from the threaded shaft and the threaded shaft is spring biased so as to release the accelerator pedal when the pawl is disengaged from the threaded shaft by the solenoid.The brake pedal actuator includes a pneumatic cylinder containing a piston that is drivably coupled to the brake pedal of the vehicle so as to depress and release the brake pedal of the vehicle in accordance with the introduction of a pressurized fluid to the pneumatic cylinder.
An acoustic testing method and apparatus is disclosed for measuring the ultrasonic speed of sound and the sound absorption of both longitudinal and shear waves in a material as a function of temperature. A supporting device holding a pair of transducers in opposed, parallel relationship is pivotable about two, mutually perpendicular axes to vary the angular positions of the transducer pair for shear wave measurements and to adjust the transducer's relative positions to compensate for wave shift. Test specimens are supported upon a rotatable fixture which fixedly positions them between the transducers. Specimen holders, adapted to be positioned within the rotatable fixture, permit testing of materials which are not normally self-supporting, liquids or materials otherwise adversely affected during testing. Control means are provided to adjust the transducer positions and to change specimens. The test apparatus may be immersed in a suitable fluid.
This invention relates to ultrasonic nondestructive testing wherein ultrasonic energy is transmitted into a workpiece and the various characteristics of the workpiece, such as the presence or absence of defects, are determined by receiving ultrasonic energy reradiated from the workpiece. The system includes one or more transmitting transducers positioned to transmit ultrasonic energy onto the surface of the workpiece at an oblique angle whereby the ultrasonic energy is converted into a shear mode and propagates laterally through the workpiece into an inspection region. If there are any discontinuities within the inspection region at least a portion of the incident shear waves are reradiated from the discontinuity. A receiving transducer is disposed laterally from the transmitting transducer and substantially normal to the surface of the workpiece for receiving the reradiated energy. In addition, several novel forms of scanning are provided for inspecting large areas of the workpiece and producing a printed record of the characteristics of the workpiece.
A method and apparatus for measuring a time interval. In particular an ultrasonic-gaging system for measuring the thickness of an object by generating an absolute analog signal defining the difference between a dummy measurement and a full measurement. During the dummy measurement, a digitally controlled current related to the material velocity coefficient of the object charges an integrator capacitor for a first time interval. Upon completion of the dummy measurement, the voltage stored on the integrator capacitor is applied to an offset capacitor through an amplifier. The offset capacitor is charged to a first voltage which represents the dummy measurement interval and system errors. During the full measurement, the integrator capacitor, which is discharged at the begining of the full measurement, is charged by the material velocity coefficient current for a second time interval related to the thickness of the object plus the interval of the dummy measurement, the second time interval greater than the first time interval. Upon completion of the full measurement, the voltage stored on the integrator capacitor is fed to a digital panel meter via the amplifier and offset capacitor. The signal at an output terminal of the amplifier represents the thickness of the object plus the interval of the dummy measurement and system errors. The absolute analog signal applied to the panel meter is the difference between the signals at the output terminal of the amplifier at the end of the dummy full measurements, the first voltage being stored on the offset capacitor.
A method and apparatus for the detection of incipient structural failures by acoustic emission monitoring in the presence of background noise. One or more "master" sensors are placed on the structure to be tested and are surrounded by a plurality of "slave" sensors. Each sensor detects acoustic emissions in the structure and sends a corresponding signal to an Acoustic Emission Monitor (AEM). The AEM includes electronic circuitry which accepts only signals which reach the master sensors before they reach the slave sensors, thus excluding signals originating outside the area covered by the sensor array. The AEM also contains frequency filters excluding signals outside the desired frequency range, to exclude most background "noise." These techniques permit the detection of acoustic emissions from flaws and propagating cracks in structures of complex shape in an acoustically noisy environment.
A system for monitoring crack growth in a structure in which acoustic energy released as a result of a crack event is sensed and integrated to provide a binary signal representative of the number and intensity of individual crack events. The binary crack energy data signals are accumulated and a warning device is activated when the stored crack data exceeds a predetermined level. Means may be provided to discriminate crack event signals from similar acoustic signals resulting from noise and impact or vibration.
Electrical circuit means for use in acoustic emission detecting and/or recording apparatus comprises logic gates which in operation of the apparatus are connected to respective transducers so as to receive electrical signals representative in time of the distances of the transducers from a source of acoustic emission. Each gate is set prior to the receipt of a signal from the associated transducer to afford an output signal on receipt of a signal at its input. Further logic elements are provided which are connected with the logic gates and are adapted upon receipt by one of the gates by an input signal to reset for a predetermined time at least the remainder of the logic gates so as to prevent the appearance of an output signal on any of said remainder of the logic gates at said predetermined time.
A piezoelectric transducer for measuring the deformation of a member subject to a load. The piezoelectric transducer is mounted between a pair of spaced brackets with a section of the mounting having a stress/deformation ratio which prevents excessive deformation of the transducer. The brackets are mounted on the member with the line between them, which is at right angles to the transducer, oriented at right angles to the load applied to the member so that the lateral rather than the longitudinal deformation is sensed. The terminals for the piezoelectric transducer are conductive elements engaging the faces of the transducer and have relative length and cross-sectional dimensions such that they bend with lateral forces, minimizing unequal compressive forces across the surface of the transducer.A slotted mounting bracket is fitted with a shim for accurate adjustment of the prestress load on the transducer.
An improved sensing circuit particularly adapted for use with a piezoelectric transducer or the like, which transducer is characterized by its extremely high internal impedance. The transducer is disposed in a normally balanced input circuit so that there is effectively zero current flowing through the transducer when it is not activated. A unity-voltage-gain, high-current-gain amplifier is biased to its linear conduction operating point so as to present an extremely high dynamic input impedance to the output signal from the transducer. The amplifier output is applied to trigger a variable threshold, variable current output control circuit having a relay as an indicating device.
The invention is embodied in a one-piece connecting and assembly member wherein electrical contact is made by flexible contact portions on the member between one end of each of a plurality of fragile semiconductor units and a separate rigid contact member in a high power rectifier or the like. This contact is accomplished while protecting the semiconductor units from physical stresses which could otherwise be applied to them during manufacture and during thermal expansion and contraction of a high power device employing the semiconductor units. The flexible connecting and assembly member includes a cup-shaped portion having an opening for mating with one end of a rigid connecting stud in the high power device and a plurality of contacting fingers extending between the cup-shaped portion and each of the semiconductor units. Each of the fingers is comprised of a U-shaped portion, having first and second integral legs which extend generally in opposite directions along the axis of the cup-shaped portion and a shaped contacting portion. Furthermore, an additional contacting finger may be formed from the bottom of the cup-shaped portion for making electrical contact to an additional semiconductor unit. The use of the connecting and assembly member facilitates the manufacture of high power heat generating semiconductor devices, and in the ultimate use of such devices accommodates changes in temperature and the expansion and contraction of the devices utilizing such member.
The invention relates to a system for the in situ measurement of the mechanical properties for soils of foundations. The system consists of a probe means with a generally cylindrical inflatable membrane and a lowering tube for lowering the probe into a bore hole in the ground where the mechanical properties of the soils are to be measured. Means are provided to fill the membrane with a non-compressible fluid, such as water, and further means are provided to supply measured quantities of the fluid to the membrane after it is filled to thereby inflate the membrane. The volume of fluid supplied under pressure is recorded along with the pressures under which the corresponding volumes are supplied. Preferably, the membrane is non-inflatable in the longitudinal direction thereof and inflatable to only a predetermined extent in the transverse or radial direction thereof. The disclosure also teaches a preferred structure of a probe and a membrane for the probe.
A ground strain gauge is provided in which there is a working liquid storage tank which, in conjunction with shutoff valves at the inlet and outlet sides of two measuring cylinders, makes it possible to increase the working liquid volume in a flexible chamber inserted in a hole in the ground to be tested.
A breakdown tester of a relatively small brittle apertured article, typically a ferrite memory core, comprises a measuring unit including an arm formed of a calibrating arm and a supporting arm and mounted on a base in a balanced condition, a test table disposed between the supporting arm and the base for holding therebetween a test piece, and means for detecting the lowering of the supporting arm; a loading unit including at least one elongated flexible counter weight means with one end connected to the supporting arm, loading means for moving the other end of the weight means for increasing the effective weight of the flexible counter weight means, and means for converting the effective weight into an electric signal; and an operating unit including means for displaying the load applied to the supporting arm by the weight means and means responsive to the load for controlling the operation of the loading means whereby when the test piece is broken, the operation of the loading means is stopped by a signal from the lowering detecting means.
The hardness of crushable materials is determined by an apparatus capable of applying a uniformly increasing compression force to the material undergoing test. This force is applied by a plunger exerting a downward pressure on the crushable material and by the weight of a receiving container suspended from the plunger. During the test, the weight exerted by the suspended container is continuously and uniformly increased by the flow of fluid from a reservoir tank into the receiving container. The flow of fluid is commenced by the opening of a normally closed solenoid valve in response to the closing of a relay switch. This switch is adapted to assume an open position when the weight of fluid in the receiving container becomes sufficient to cause the plunger to drop to a lower position upon crushing of the crushable material being tested. The opening of the relay switch, in turn, causes the solenoid valve to close upon crushing of the material being tested. The weight of the plunger and the suspended receiving container, together with the fluid in the container, provides a precise measure of the hardness of the crushable material.
The present device is an electromechanical device to measure the torque of a system, primarily extraordinary torque. In the preferred embodiment the system provides a torque transducer which has a first end with an aperture therein and which is fixed to the housing of the power source which delivers the torque. The first end is responsive to the reaction of the power source. The transducer also has a second end with an aperture therein and which is fixed to a reference means such as a wall which will not be affected by a reaction of the power source. The transducer has a center tube which couples said first and second ends and the shaft which delivers the torque passes through said tube as well as through said before mentioned apertures. In addition, the transducer has sensing means mounted on the first and second ends which act to generate a signal in the event said first end experiences an extraordinary torque or twist with respect to said second end. In addition, the present system employs an electronic circuit connected to said transducer which provides a well defined direct current error signal over a relatively large dynamic range thus enabling a quick and reliable detection of extraordinary torque.
A torque transducer for measuring the torque input or output of a rotary machine, such as a motor or generator, and comprising a pair of axially spaced apart end plates respectively fixed to the housing of the machine and to a fixed or stationary support surface coaxially of the machine's input or output shaft axis and a plurality of flexure plates each disposed axially between and clamped at opposite ends to the end plates. The rotary machine is supported solely by the torque transducer from the support surface such that when it is horizontally oriented it is mounted in cantilever fashion at the unsupported ends of the flexure plates. By operating such rotary machines as a motor or generator, a reaction or countertorque, which is proportional to the torque input or output, is produced and applied to the housing of the machine. The flexure plates are flexed and twisted under the influence of the applied reaction torque, allowing the housing of the machine to turn about the torque transferring shaft axis through an angle that is closely proportional to the torque input or output of the machine. This angle of rotation is measured to provide a readout of the magnitude of torque input or output.
A nut running tool having a rotary air driven vane motor for transmitting torque to a nut or the like to be tightened, and having reaction torque responsive transducer means integrated with the tool and confined within its housing. The transducer is connected by means of an electrical cable running through the handle of the tool to an outlet plug adapted for connection with an external strain gage instrument. The latter is adapted to provide a visible reading of the value of torque that the tool applies to the work.
A control system for a torque producing power tool such as a nutsetter, screwdriver, or the like. The control system includes an electromechanical transducer which operates on the principle of a linear variable differential transformer. The transducer, in part, comprises the final drive spindle of the tool and is thereby in close proximity to the fastener being tightened. An electrical signal is produced by the transducer which is proportional to the torsional motive force applied to the drive spindle. The control system includes switching devices operable in response to a predetermined signal from the transducer to shut off the power supply to the tool and actuate various system condition indicators.
A torque controlled air tool employing a planetary gear set, one element of which is held stationary by magnetic means. A snap action of the linkage between the magnet and the stationary element is obtained when the force exerted on the stationary element exceeds the magnetic holding force, the snap action of the linkage being utilized to shut off the air supply to the tool.
A wrenching and torque inspection apparatus including a rotary power wrench having its housing fixed to a support by a resilient member forming part of an electronic torque measuring system for measuring the reaction torque load on the wrench housing. The torque measurement signal is used to operate an indicator, such as a light, recorder and may be used to stop the wrench at a predetermined value of torque.
In the representative embodiments of the new and improved methods and apparatus for testing earth formations disclosed herein, fluid-admitting means are placed into sealing engagement with a potentially-producible earth formation. Selectively-operable valve means are opened to place the fluid-admitting means into communication with a vacant accessible portion of a sample chamber that is divided by a piston member movably disposed therein and normally biased toward the inlet to the chamber by a charge of compressed gas confined in the other enclosed portion of the chamber. In this manner, as connate fluids enter the vacant portion of the sample chamber, movement of the piston into the gas-filled chamber portion will further compress the gas charge so as to impose a proportionally-increasing back pressure on the connate fluids that is representative of the rate at which connate fluids, if any, are entering the sample chamber.
A system such as a flow velocity measuring system relies upon obtaining a signal having a slight phase difference from a carrier signal, due to a change in signal circuit characteristic. The disclosed arrangement provides highly sensitive detection of such slight phase differences, including the provision of signal components in mutual quadrature relation permitting selection and switching as a useful output signal of that component having an instantaneous value and polarity to meet a predetermined condition of positive-going value for a selected sense of phase change, in a leading or in a lagging sense. The system may be selected to be substantially insensitive to changes in carrier frequency, or to be amplitude insensitive.
The invention relates to a receiver for the reception of information pulse signals transmitted by means of n-phase modulation wherein the original information pulses coincide with different pulses from a series of equidistant clock pulses, the receiver including an n-phase demodulator which is provided with a plurality of parallel arranged synchronous demodulators which are fed by carriers having mutually different reference phases originating from a local carrier generator which is stabilised in phase on the carrier associated with the received signals, signal channels being connected to the outputs of the n-phase demodulator including sampling circuits controlled by a local clock pulse generator the output signal of which sampling circuits characterizes the phase of the received carrier relative to the relevant reference phase of the local carrier at the instants of the local clock pulses, the receiver furthermore being provided with combination circuits connected to the sampling circuits, which combination circuits characterize each of the n-possible phase sectors of the transmitted signals in a phase diagram by means of a separate combination of the outputs of the signal channels.Such receivers are advantageously used in transmission systems which transmit an optimum quantity of information in the available frequency band. To stabilise the local carrier generator on the carrier at the transmitter end, the carrier frequency is transmitted, for example, in conventional manner from the transmitter to the receiver through a separate transmission path or with the aid of a pilot signal added to the information pulse signals to be transmitted.
A channel combining circuit for homodyne receivers or other systems  emplog synchronous detection, which selects the output of either an in-phase detector or a quadrature phase detector. Each of two channels has an inverter circuit and two diodes making available at a common output terminal the most positive signal derived from either a positive or negative input signal from the detectors.
Apparatus and a method for measuring the flow rate of a fluid in which a beam of ultrasonic, electromagnetic, optical or other radiant energy is transmitted across the flow at each of two positions spaced apart in the direction of flow, the noise amplitude, frequency or phase modulation on each beam due to disturbances in the flow is detected, and the two resultant signals are cross-correlated to determine the time delay therebetween producing maximum correlation, i.e. the mean fluid transport time between the beams, and thus the mean fluid flow rate.
A device for determining the composition of a liquid-gas mixture in the course of mixture preparation comprising a gas flow sensing element and a liquid-gas mixture composition indicator having a chamber divided by a fixed and a movable partition into two cavities. One cavity communicates with a liquid stream directed to a liquid-gas mixture preparing unit being tested, while a circulating liquid stream is produced in the second cavity by means of a centrifugal pump whose impeller is driven by a shaft of a gas flow sensing element. The liquid streams set the movable partition in a position defining the liquid-gas mixture composition.
A turbine meter has a measuring chamber assembly complete with rotor and a magnetic drive train to an external register mounted on a detachable cover plate mounted over a side opening in a hollow-meter body. The measuring chamber assembly has a special slide guide fit and internal seating on the body, and it can be inserted into the body only in proper orientation in the flow path. An adapter plate on the inside of the cover positions the measuring chamber assembly relative to the cover plate. A special sealed casing magnetic drive includes rotatably mounting the driver and driven magnets on common shaft means oppositely projecting from the casing end wall.
Apparatus including a sampling tube with means for moving an open end thereof into and out of a liquid flowing through a conduit, said tube being connected to a sample chamber having therein control means for causing retraction of the tube from the liquid when the sample in the chamber reaches a predetermined volume. At the same time as the sampling tube is retracted from the liquid, a valve is opened to allow the sample to flow from the chamber into a container therefor.
A suspension sampling device designed for taking, at regularly timed intervals, samples of ore pulp slurries having abrasive characteristics, as they are passed through a pipeline; the device being provided with means for inserting a sampling tube into the pipe for removal of a representative portion of the flowing pulp stream, and when necessary, means for removing from the sampling tube all portions of the sample taken which may adhere to, or tend to remain within, the sampling tube after its withdrawal from the pipeline.
The apparatus includes a sampling head adapted to be mounted at a sample pickup station. The head includes a hollow sample pickup probe adapted to be inserted into a sample container at the sample pickup station for extracting a given amount of fluid sample from the container. The pickup probe is movable between a first or sampling position and a second or retracted position by means of an air cylinder. A valve mechanism connected to the probe is operable on movement of the probe to the sampling position for connecting the probe to a device for withdrawing fluid from the sample container through the probe. The air cylinder not only moves the probe but also, and at the same time, operates the valve mechanism. In the second position the valve mechanism effects fluid connections for mixing a given amount of the fluid sample with another fluid and for simultaneously transferring the mixture to a receptacle.
Acceleration is determined by measurement of differential voltages between a pair of opposed electrodes which maintain a sensing mass in preselected position therebetween. The disclosure pertains further to preferred electrode configuration for improving electrostatic field uniformity in accelerometers.
A screw-shaft type power operator for garage doors and other bidirectionally movable loads including an extruded aluminum rail defining a channel for the screw shaft and immediately adjacent the channel an opposed hollow flange arrangement defining inner and outer traveler tracks. An inner traveler is disposed substantially within the rail and includes a trapped nut meshing with the screw shaft for linear displacement along the rail upon rotation of the screw shaft. An outer traveler body encloses the lower portion of the rail for sliding engagement therewith and is capable of sliding over and past the inner traveler in both directions. A latch carried by the outer traveler and spring biased into a vertically-extending slot in the inner traveler mechanically interconnects the two travelers but is capable of being withdrawn from engagement with the inner traveler so as to permit free manual operation of the garage door while still connected to the outer traveler. A bearing liner of polygonal cross-sectional configuration is disposed between the screw shaft and the screw shaft channel to reduce wear and noise upon operation of the screw shaft.
The invention is a driving and steering unit with a power driven four to cone transmission which permits to turning the wheels on opposite sides of a vehicle in the same or opposite directions, and an actuating device which allows selection of forward or reverse by shifting and to steer by turning a handlebar in the desired direction.
A conveyor drive mechanism for an overhead enclosed track type conveyor that is adapted to be positioned in a corner turn of the conveyor's track. The drive mechanism includes a plurality of paddles interconnected to one another and positioned relative one to the other on a circular locus of points, the paddles extending radially outward from the center of that circular locus of points. The center of that circular locus of points is in the same plane as, and is also the center point of, the track's corner turn. A power unit is connected to the interconnected paddles, the power unit causing the paddles to rotate in a positive manner about the center of the circular locus of points. Each of the paddles is also independently mounted for pivotal motion about a pivot axis in the plane of the circular locus of points, the paddles being pivotable relative to one another into and out of driving engagement with the conveyor's chain as the chain traverses the conveyor's track in the track's corner turn, thereby driving the conveyor's chain through the conveyor's track. Each of the paddles includes at least one drive dog adapted to engage the conveyor's chain through an elongated slot in the conveyor's track in the corner turn of that track. Cam tracks are provided to positively cam each of the paddle's drive dogs into and out of driving engagement with the conveyor's chain, thereby insuring driving engagement as the chain passes those paddles in proximity to the track.
A family of multispeed constant-mesh-gear reversible transmissions has a basic structure that includes five drivingly connected shafts, with all of these shafts lying in a common plane. A plurality of gear trains selectively drives the output shaft at various speed ratios, and pluralities of clutches are used for connecting several of the shafts and for connecting various ones of the gears to various shafts for conjoint rotation therewith. Several embodiments of connecting means are used for connecting the output shaft with at least one of the several gears.
An eight speed vehicle transmission including a four speed main gear box and a two speed splitter gear box located on the input side of the four speed gear box. The four speed main gear box is detachable from the two speed splitter gear box for use with lighter weight vehicles. The transmission includes oil actuated multiple disk, power shift clutches for actuating constant mesh spur gears. The clutches are operated in sequentially selected combinations by means of hydraulic fluid under pressure regulated by solenoid operated pilot valves. The solenoids are operated by relays through means of a selector switch. The range shift in the four speed main transmission is obtained by the use of two single clutch packs on the third shaft is used for the low range torque with the torque with the torque multiplication taken on the output side of this clutch. The high range torque is handled by the single clutch pack on the fourth shaft. The output shaft of the main gear box has connections for rear and front axles. The output torque to the front axle is controlled by a torque limiter. Front axle drive disconnect means are also provided.
In an environment wherein a pair of basic structures are interrelated for limited relative movement and wherein one structure carries a controllable part and the other carries a controlling part, the linkage and mounting means between and for the parts includes provision compensating for such relative movement in such manner that the control mechanism is not affected by such relative movement.
Apparatus for controlling the speed and direction of movement of a vehicle using a pair of hydraulic drive units, each unit including an engine driven fluid pump and a cooperating fluid operated motor. Each motor is drivingly connected to one of a pair of laterally spaced drive wheels, steering of the vehicle being effected by a differential in speed between the drive wheels. A pivotal control lever is connected by linkage to speed and direction control arms on the drive units and pivotal and bodily movements are imparted to the lever, to control speed and direction of vehicle movement, by a speed control element and a steering wheel.
A brake pedal is suspended on a fixed support by links so that the pedal, the links, and the fixed support provide a four-bar link system. The link pivot points and lengths are so positioned that the effective pedal ratio increases as the pedal is stroked in the brake apply direction.
A worm driven recirculating ball actuator for axially displacing a very long actuator rod is provided with a worm in meshing relation with a worm wheel through the centre of which extends the threaded long actuator rod. An oil dam isolates the rod aperture from the worm mechanism and extends well above the level where the worm and worm wheel mesh, so as to permit full immersion of the gear portion of the transmission with effectively total sealing of the oil bath. The improved reliability is of considerable importance in actuators used in a nuclear reactor environment.
A transmission having a torque converter with lockup clutch, hydrodynamic retarder and power shift gear unit and controls. The retarder operating chamber has toroidal flow and inlet and outlet passages providing pumping action varying as a function of toroidal flow. The main fluid supply regulated by the main regulator valve at a high pressure is connected to the gear unit controls and retarder controls. The lubrication fluid supply regulated by the lubrication regulator valve at an intermediate pressure is connected to the lubrication system. The overage from both the main and lubrication regulator valves is connected to the torque converter and in series to the cooler. The retarder manual valve in the retarder off position positions the relay valve in the off position to block the retarder chamber inlet and connect the retarder chamber outlet to exhaust and the cooler outlet to a low pressure converter regulator valve. The manual valve in the minimum to maximum retarding range of positions places the relay valve in the retarder on position connecting the retarder outlet to join the converter outlet to the cooler and the cooler outlet to the retarder inlet, disconnects cooler outlet from the low pressure regulator valve and connects retarder inlet to the retarder inlet regulator valve to regulate retarder inlet pressure between a minimum and a maximum directly as the manual valve moves from the minimum to maximum retarding position and to reduce retarder inlet pressure with increasing retarder speed to provide retarding capacity increasing as a substantially straight line function with speed.
Power transmission having torque converter drivingly connected to a planetary gear unit conditionable by selective engagement of friction drive establishing devices to provide for four forward drives and one reverse drive. A converter clutch normally held from engagement by the feed of fluid into the converter through a clutch control chamber can be engaged by converter pressure in response to an upshift signal and subsequent exhaust of fluid from the control chamber to permit mechanical drive of the gear unit. A shift valve forming part of hydraulic controls provides a signal pressure to open a converter feed restrictor valve to permit the converter to be fed with operating oil through a second feed passage. The signal from this valve also activates an accumulator valve system which controls the engagement of the converter clutch so that converter clutch capacity is gradually increased to a maximum. There is a detent valve which provides for 3-2 and 4-3 part throttle downshifts and 4-2, 3-2 and 2-1 full throttle downshifts.
A transmission having a multiratio gear unit providing five forward speeds established by the engagement of a forward drive clutch and one additional individual speed engaging device for each forward speed and a reverse drive by the engagement of the second and fourth forward speed devices for reverse drive. A manual selector valve for selecting and holding in a first speed drive, selecting a range providing speed and torque demand controlled automatic shifting between four speeds, second to fifth and selecting further lower ranges each preventing normal automatic shifting to the highest speed in the next higher range but permitting shifts to all available higher speeds at higher than normal overrun speeds. For each speed an automatic shift valve controls a relay valve. The relay valves are hydraulically sequentially arranged so each lower speed relay valve when upshifted feeds through the downshifted next higher speed relay valve to feed the motor to engage the next speed ratio drive. The relay valves each have low and high inlet, supply and exhaust ports. In the downshift position the low inlet port is connected to the low supply port and the high supply port is connected to the high exhaust. In the upshift position the high inlet port is connected to the high supply port and the low supply port is connected to low exhaust. The second and higher relay valves have a low inlet port having a restricted feed and a one-way bypass return. Thus each speed drive motor is fed for each speed drive engagement through its restricted feed passage on both up and down shifts and each speed drive motor is exhausted for speed drive disengagement through one restricted exhaust passage on upshifts and another restricted exhaust passage on downshifts to provide individually controlled motor feed and thus engagement rates and individually controlled exhaust rates at one rate during upshift and another rate during downshifts.
A manually shiftable planetary transmission and control providing four forward drive ratios and a reverse drive ratio. The forward ratios and the reverse ratio are established and interchanged by the operator through the selectively controlled application of a forward clutch and a direct-reverse clutch respectively. A manual clutch modulator valve is manipulated by the operator to control the engagement pressure of the clutches when ratios are being established or interchanged. The ratios are interchanged by the operator through the use of the clutch modulator valve and a manual selector valve which selector valve also conditions a relay valve to direct the controlled engagement pressure from the clutch modulator valve to the proper clutch for the establishment of the ratio selected by the operator. Positioning of the selector valve also conditions other clutches and brakes in the transmission without modulated engagement.
A hydraulic control system for a power transmission of the type having a modulated friction clutch and torque converter. The transmission also includes a multi-ratio gear selection unit which is hydraulically operated and the entire transmission is interposed between a source of power such as an internal combustion engine and the load. The control mechanism also includes a modulating valve for the friction clutch and a separate control valve for the modulating valve.
A landless inner cutter having a body portion which is made from a single piece of metallic material such as a strip of sheet metal. The inner cutter has a body portion including a pair of longitudinal flanges provided with ledges which support a plurality of parallel, arch-shaped, cutter tooth blade sections. The blade sections span the space between the flanges and are disposed normal to the same. In addition, the inner cutter includes a support which is also made of a single piece of sheet metal, to which the blade sections are individually secured so as to rigidly maintain the same parallel to one another. The method of forming the blade sections in a strip of sheet metal in order to form a landless inner cutter, includes the steps of removing material from the strip to provide the same with a first archlike edge which has a rise and a span; cutting a second archlike edge in the strip which is longitudinally displaced from the first edge such that the span of the second edge intersects the rise of the first edge; bending the resulting arch-shaped strip material or blade section, between the archlike edges out of and normal to the plane of the strip, so as to provide a normally disposed, arch-shaped blade section and to expose another first archlike edge in the plane of the strip; and, repeating the cutting and bending steps, as necessary, to provide a plurality of equidistantly-spaced, normally disposed, arch-shaped blade sections in the strip.
Apparatus for covering buttons operable in an automatic, semi-automatic or manual mode. The apparatus includes a rotatable table having alternately positioned shell and back receiving lower dies, means for automatically delivering the shells and backs to their respective lower dies, a reciprocating upper die synchronized for movement with the rotation of the rotatable table and engageable with the lower dies at a first station to transfer a shell and fabric covering from a shell receiving lower die to the upper die and press-fit a back from a back receiving lower die into the covered shell in the upper die to form an assembled covered button and having means permitting its use with a range of fabric cover thicknesses, and means for ejecting the assembled covered buttons.
A tool for relieving the pressure of a lock bar on a brake adjustment spindle has a longitudinal member provided with a manipulating portion at one end and an abutment at the other end. This longitudinal member is arranged on a frame for moving a brake spindle lock bar to a position releasing a brake adjustment spindle associated with the lock bar. Once the longitudinal member has moved a lock bar into a spindle releasing position, notches arranged along one side of the longitudinal member are moved into engagement with a spring-biased pawl mounted on the frame to hold the longitudinal member in a position retaining the lock bar in its spindle releasing position. A projection is arranged on the frame for cooperating with the abutment and a brake drum to hold a lock bar in spindle releasing position. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates generally to a tool for moving and holding a resiliently biased element, and particularly to a tool for use in adjusting a brake having an adjustment spindle by releasing the spindle from the pressure of an associated lock bar.2. Description of the Prior ArtThe rear wheel brakes of many standard automobiles have brake shoes that are adjusted by varying the distance between adjacent ends of the shoes. A length-adjustable member is commonly arranged between the shoe ends for effecting the adjustment. This adjustable member, or spindle, is frequently locked against movement which would change its setting by the pressure of a spring-biased lock bar. A disadvantage of this arrangement is that a mechanic must hold the lock bar off of the spindle, leaving only one hand available for brake adjustment purposes.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is an object of the present invention to provide a tool for moving and holding a resiliently biased element.It is another object of the present invention to provide a tool especially suited for relieving the pressure of a lock bar on a brake adjustment spindle.It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a method for adjusting a brake of the kind having an adjustment spindle and associated lock bar.This and other objects are achieved according to the present invention by providing a tool having: a longitudinal member arranged for moving a resiliently biased element such as a lock bar associated with a brake adjustment spindle; and an arrangement including a spring-biased pawl arranged for holding the longitudinal member and retaining the resiliently biased element in a moved position.According to a preferred embodiment of a tool according to the present invention, the longitudinal member has spaced ends, and is provided with a manipulating portion at one end and an abutment at the other end.A preferred holding arrangement for a tool according to the present invention has a frame provided with a handle portion arranged for positioning the frame, and a guide arrangement in which the longitudinal member is slidably received. A plurality of notches are advantageously provided along one side of the longitudinal member between the manipulating portion and abutment thereof, and a spring-biased pawl is arranged on the frame for interrelating with at least one of the notches when the latter are directed toward the pawl and locking the longitudinal member against sliding in the guide arrangement.An advantageous feature of a tool according to the present invention has a projection provided on the frame and arranged for cooperating with the abutment of the longitudinal member and with a brake drum associated with the brake being adjusted for holding the associated lock bar in a spindle releasing position so as to free both hands of a mechanic and better able same to adjust the brake.A brake is adjusted according to the present invention by the steps of: inserting a member into a brake drum and moving a brake spindle lock bar associated with the brake drum to a position releasing a brake adjustment spindle also associated with the lock bar; locking the inserted member relative to an associated frame and positioning the frame and member in retentive relationship with respect to the drum and lock bar and retaining the lock bar away from the spindle; and adjusting the brake by turning the spindle.These together with other objects and advantages which will become subsequently apparent reside in the details of construction and operation as more fully hereinafter described and claimed, reference being had to the accompanying drawings forming a part hereof, wherein like numerals refer to like parts throughout.
A ratcheting wrench for a hexagonal or a square member, the wrench having a body providing a backup jaw and a torqueing jaw with a member receiving space therebetween and a handle portion extending therefrom, the backup jaw having a planar member engaging working surface and the torqueing jaw having: (1) a first hexagonal member working surface parallel to and spaced from the backup jaw member engaging surface a distance slightly greater than the distance between opposing sides of the hexagonal member the length of the first surface being less than one-half of the length along a side of the hexagonal member, (2) a second hexagonal member working surface intersecting said first hexagonal member working surface at an angle of 60.degree., (3) a square member positioning surface intersecting said first hexagonal member working surface at the end thereof opposite the second hexagonal member working surface, the plane of the square member positioning surface being perpendicular to the backup jaw surface, and (4) a square member working surface intersecting the square member positioning surface perpendicular thereto, the square member working surface being parallel to the backup jaw surface and displaced from the backup jaw surface slightly greater than the width between opposing faces of the square member.
An improved open end wrench which is adapted for turning hexagonal head nuts, the wrench being of unitary formation with no moving parts yet having the capability of ratchet-type wrench return between successive power strikes. The wrench consists of a one piece formation of uniform substance having jaw portions which define a recessed wrench surface or configuration of non-symmetrical character as comprised of a series of juxtaposed arcuate indentations. The co-extensive arcuate recesses about the inner wrench surface are so formed to extend four surfaces into bearing contact with a hexagonal head nut during power stroke, while retaining the capability of unobstructed reverse or return stroke movement about substantially the same axis of revolution.
An adjustable wrench comprises a wrench head which is provided with an opening for a nut or a bolt and is non-pivotably united with a tubular handle. Associated with this handle is a rod, which is axially displaceable therein and has one of its ends projecting into the opening for engaging a bolt head or a nut, and an external sleeve which is axially displaceable and lockable in different axial positions on the rear end of the tubular handle. To enable the wrench to work as a ratchet spanner, means are provided for releasable locking of the rod to the sleeve in the axial direction and for resiliently pressing the rod in the direction towards the wrench head when the locking is released.
An improvement in adjustable spanners of the type comprising a handle having a fixed jaw, an adjustable jaw mounted on a traveler, an adjuster screw for adjusting the traveler, and an opening into which the adjuster screw is secured; the improvement comprising a leaf spring in the form of a substantially cylindrical shell presenting an inwardly folded long edge portion extending along one long edge of a longitudinal extending slot in the shell. The leaf spring is placed in an opening that communicates with the adjuster screw opening and is removable therefrom.
A wrench having both torqueing and ratcheting capabilities for rotating hexagonal members including a body having a torqueing jaw and a backup jaw, the jaws being spaced from each other to slidably receive the opposed sides of a hexagonal member therebetween, a retractable interceptor means carried by the wrench and positional between a torqueing position and a ratcheting position, so arranged that in the ratcheting position the interceptor engages the hexagonal member and limits the contact of the torqueing jaw to less than one-half of the member side, and when the interceptor is in the torqueing position the torqueing jaw is unobstructed to fully engage the member side.
In order to provide an open-end wrench which will ratchet in one direction to permit sequential strokes of the wrench without removing it from the element being tightened or loosened, one of the jaws is rendered controllably retractable. The retractable jaw is biased toward the unretracted position by means of a compression spring disposed behind the retractable jaw element which is oriented to move linearly in a guide slot angularly toward and away from the element being operated upon as the ratcheting function is carried out. A detent pin extends through the retractable jaw element in a direction normal to a flat surface grasped within the jaws and is spring loaded toward the jaw surface. The other end of the detent pin comprises an enlarged head portion which restrains the detent pin compression spring on its undersurface and is curved on its upper surface to function as a detent cooperating with a recess in the stationary portion of the jaw carrying the retractable jaw element. The detent pin serves to lock the retractable jaw element in the grasping position so long as a flat area of the grasped element is flush with the detent pin end which causes the head end of the pin to remain locked in the detent bore. However, when the direction of the wrench is reversed, the natural tendency of the flat area of the element being operated upon to move away from the jaw surface proximate the detent pin coupled with pressure exerted on the retractable jaw element in an area nearer the open end of the wrench permits the pin to lift slightly and relax the retractable jaw element which is pushed angularly rearwardly from its locked position and ratchets until the direction is again reversed at which time a flat area of the element being operated upon will again constrain the detent pin, and hence the retractable jaw element, in the locked position. A locking pin is incorporated into the mechanism for preventing retraction of the ratcheting jaw in order that the wrench can function as an ordinary open-end wrench. To facilitate working "blindly," a spring loaded retractable ball is disposed in the stationary jaw proximate the tip thereof to provide a slight locking effect once the nut or the like is located and the wrench is slid into position. Similarly, two small retractable pins are provided, one above the other, at the base of the nut-receiving opening and function to assist in maintaining the wrench engaged with the nut or the like being operated upon by providing a "stop" function against raising or lowering the working end of the wrench sufficiently to "lose" the nut. By engaging the nut in such a manner that one of the two superimposed pins is retracted and the other functions as a stop, slight pressure against the stop assists in maintaining engagement between the tool and the nut.
A clamping tool has a housing with a chamber therein open at one end. A multiplicity of bars is disposed in the chamber, the bars being individually displaceable inwardly of the housing against the spring action of a pad member filled with a compressible and/or displaceable medium, whereby fitting the tool to a component to be gripped thereby causes only the bars aligned with the component to be displaced into the chamber, the surrounding bars remaining immobile to grip around the component. The tool can form a spanner, a chuck, a vice clamp jaw, or a coupling means with one or more housings and associated bar assembly.
A viscous medium such as a heavy grease or molten solder is sealed in a chamber by a diaphragm to provide a compensating bonding tip and/or a compensating base. As bonding pressure is applied to a workpiece to bond a plurality of leads to selected bonding sites on the workpiece, the diaphragm flexes to compensate for workpiece irregularities and the viscous medium distributes the bonding pressure across the diaphragm to apply uniform bonding pressure at each bonding site. Bonding and/or supporting pads may be carried by the diaphragm to facilitate the application of pressure to a desired site.Alternatively, a ductile material is confined in a chamber and an apertured plate is employed to locate and retain a plurality of pins at desired positions on the ductile material. The pins and plate cooperate to confine the ductile material to the chamber and the pins are employed to apply bonding pressure to selected bonding sites on a workpiece and/or to support selected areas of the workpiece. The pins are independently displaceable to compensate for workpiece irregularities and the confined ductile material hydraulically interconnects the pins to uniformly distribute the bonding pressure to the pins.Alternatively, the resiliency of the pins is employed to provide compensation for workpiece irregularities or the pins are mounted on a resilient mat to provide such compensation.
A fastener actuator having a plurality of fastener engaging elements, each fastener engaging element being independently positionable in an engaging proximity to a fastener, the fastener engaging elements being adapted to cooperate to remove or tighten the fastener.
Apparatus for punching holes in sheet material is provided. At least one cutting knife is mounted for rotation about a first axis. A punching surface of the knife includes end edges that protrude further from the axis than the side edges of the punching surface to permit the end edges to penetrate the sheet material before the side edges sever the sheet material. A cylindrical roll having a groove extending about its circumference is mounted for rotation about a second axis that is parallel to said first axis. The groove forms a pair of continuous cutting edges positioned in cooperative shearing relationship with the side edges of the punching surface of the knife. The new cutting method performed by the apparatus comprises first penetrating the sheet material with the end edges of the punching surface of the knife to form end cut lines which are longitudinally spaced in the sheet material, and then shearing the sheet material along a pair of side cut lines with each side cut line connecting a pair of laterally aligned ends of the end cut lines.
A bread slicer adaptable for slicing loaves of elongated "French," or "Italian" bread into substantially uniform pieces. The end cuts from the loaves are removed from the slicer separately from the desired, uniform center pieces. Circular saw blades, of the cross-cut variety, function as the slicing means, and two sets of elastically compressible rollers are utilized (1) to maintain the loaves in contact with conveying means as they pass through the saw blades and, (2) to prevent the blades from randomly kicking the pieces off the conveyor belts at varying rates and in different directions.
The embodiment of the invention disclosed herein is directed to a flange punch positioning apparatus for locating holes to be formed through flange portions of structural members such as I-beams, channels, and angles. In the case of I-beams, the holes formed in the flanges are located with respect to the horizontal line or plane bisecting the horizontal web portions. In the case of forming holes in channels or angles the holes are located in the flange with respect to the bottom surface of the horizontal web. The apparatus automatically positions the punch at the desired height along the flange by using a pair of diametrically opposed axially movable sensing rods which engage both sides of the web portion of the structural member to sense the relative level of the web. Once the proper reference level is sensed, the punch mechanism is moved into position above and/or below the web and the hole is formed.
An apparatus for punching or shearing work members by tool elements which are supported in a holder, with one of the tool elements movable toward and away from the other. The holder is supported in a frame in which a work member is guided between the tool elements. The holder is resiliently supported in the frame so that during a work operation the actuated tool element will first engage the work member and then the holder will move to bring the other tool element into engagement with the work member and the work operation is then completed by continuing the actuation of the actuated tool element.
A safety system for workpiece-processing machines employs a physical guard which prohibits the operator from gaining access to the work-processing area. Workpieces are transferred from the operator's side of the guard to the press side by a workpiece-receiving nest. The nest passes back and forth a short distance through an opening in the guard such that it continually blocks off most of this opening. A transfer device picks up a part from the nest when the nest is on the machine side of the guard and transfers it to the work-processing region of the machine.
A safety device of a shearing machine comprising a pair of upper and lower edged blades for cutting off a sheet metal to the required width thereof, a driving means adapted to vertically move said upper blade, a front plate mounted on the front of said upper blade and provided with gates for the observation of said blades, a bracket fixed to said front plate, and safety guards of said safety device each mounted on said bracket and arranged to cover the gate thereby ensuring the better safety during the operation to the operator.
The fabric web to be cut by a textile cutting device is transported by an endless belt carrier relative to a cutting tool. Sockets in the belt margin are engaged by teeth on one side of a short coupling belt underlying the carrier margin in the cutting region for positively supporting and driving the carrier. Teeth on the coupling element side opposite the carrier engage a toothed drive roller and toothed guide wheels. Pressure rollers cooperate with the guide wheels to press the carrier and coupling element into intimate engagement. The lower carrier belt portion is supported so that its stretches between supports are slack. A roller beneath the cutting tool backs the carrier to fix the carrier height at the cutting location. The coupling element may be an endless chain having carrier socket-engaging teeth projecting therefrom.
An endless conveyor belt is carried by driving and driven pulleys having belt-engaging peripheries comprising, alternately, planar and curved surfaces. Flexure of a seam of the belt and consequent breakage of the belt is avoided by causing the belt in the vicinity of the seam to be engaged by one of the planar surfaces.
Mechanical belting having transverse rigidity provided by spaced apart transversely extending layers, one of these layers is of compression-resisting material and the other of tension-resisting material, the spaced apart layers giving a beam effect. The layer of tension-resisting material is of troughed shape in a transverse cross section. By this means, the centers of the layers are spaced further apart than their lateral edges, giving an increased resistance to troughing of the belt.
The splitting or cutting of rubberized fabric material while it is being conveyed wherein a cutter is journaled on a support for rotation about its axis, and having a portion thereof in cutting engagement with an anvil that is mounted on the carriage for reciprocal movement relative to such cutter to provide for a shearing action. Such anvil supports the material during and after cutting. Such cutter has a plurality of circumferentially spaced linear cutting edges or cutters. A spring on the shaft biases the cutters into shearing engagement with such anvil so that as the fabric material is moved or conveyed past the cutter and anvil, it cuts the material into predetermined widths by a shearing action.
Bias cutting of rubberized fabric material wherein a carriage is reciprocated on a support frame, which frame is adjusted angularly to determine the bias angle of cut. A cutter support is mounted on the carriage for pivotal adjustment about a vertical axis to position the cutter that it supports to provide for a shearing cutting action. Such cutter support journals for rotation a shaft that supports on one end a rotating cutter with a plurality of circumferentially spaced linear cutting edges. A spring on the other end of the shaft biases the cutters into shearing engagement with a cutter guide over which the fabric material is to travel and is positioned for cutting. The cutting action of the cutters is a shearing action as the cutter and carriage are reciprocated across the support frame. In lieu of a single carriage and cutter, a pair of cutter supports may be continuously guided in an orbital path so that the rotary cutters cut in one portion of the path.
An apparatus for trimming the respective four sides of a flat elastomeric stock. The apparatus includes a pair of trim stations interconnected by a transfer conveyor wherein the respective trimming machines trim at least a pair of sides. Each of the trimming machines are adjustable automatically to compensate for variations in width as well as height of the panels of material.
Cloth cutting apparatus adapted for use on a cloth rewinding machine comprising a track secured to the rewinding machine and extending generally horizontally, the track being positioned so that the cloth being rewound passes thereover prior to being wound up into a bolt. The track is constituted by a length of tubing having a slot extending longitudinally thereof with the slot facing the cloth. A carriage having rollers thereon is received in the tube so as to mount the carriage for movement along the track. The cutting apparatus includes a rotary cutting blade and drive means for the cutter blade carried by the carriage, the latter being movable along the track with the cutter blade driven by the drive means to cut the cloth.
A paper cutter of the type having a rotary blade movable adjacent to and along one side margin of a board for supporting paper wherein the blade is coupled to one of a pair of adjacent rollers carried by a channel member disposed longitudinally of the side margin of the board. A resilient strap is secured at its ends to the ends of the channel member and is partially wrapped around the rollers to cause rotation of the same while permitting movement of the rollers and thereby the cutter blade with minimum resistance due to friction. Means is provided to bias the cutter blade toward the side margin.
A carriage is mounted for manual movement along a slotted track and supports the peripheral cutting edge of a rotary knife within the slot. A roller is mounted on the carriage for rotation about an axis parallel to that of the rotary knife to hold a portion of material to be cut against the track and has a peripheral groove arranged to receive a portion of the rotating cutting edge of the knife. A nip is defined at the point where the cutting edge enters the roller groove to abradingly cut material arranged in its path movement. A cantilevered throat plate is preferably mounted on the carriage and has split trails at its free end to receive the cutting edge therebetween and to smooth such held material proximate the nip. The configuration of the split trails tends to insure the rotative independence of the roller and the knife.
Apparatus for forming accordion folds in a longitudinally traveling web of substantially uniform width and indefinite length including web cutting means disposed upstream or downstream of said folding apparatus.
A method of and apparatus for dispensing web material, especially cellular padding such as is used in packaging furniture and the like, wherein the material is directed downwardly in suspended condition from a source past an elongate stationary knife. Upon a predetermined length of the material falling past the knife, an anvil roller is traversed automatically along the knife, with the web material interposed therebetween, so that the anvil roller presses the material against the knife, causing the same to sever a predetermined length from the web material.
A percussion musical instrument of the invention comprises resonance boxes of rectangular cross-section. Each of the resonance boxes has an open mouth of a rectangular shape, which is faced with each of tone bars. Some of the resonance boxes, especially at the bass and intermediate tone regions, has a first portion extending perpendicular to the tone bars, and a second portion extending from, and perpendicular to, the first portion. Thereby, it is possible to present a percussion musical instrument of small height, wherein the resonance boxes well receive the sonic energy emitted from the tone bars, attaining sufficient resonance therein.
A fastener for driving into hard material such as concrete, stone, or brick includes a nail having a rounded head and an improved washer initially positioned about the shank of the nail at an end of the nail remote from the head. An impact tool having a nail driving attachment is used to drive the nail through the washer as the nail pierces the material.
A blind fastener for fastening bodies together comprises a hollow tubular sleeve provided with a head, and a stud passing through the hole through the sleeve. The stud is provided with threads near its front end which engage corresponding threads near the front end of the sleeve. The stud also has threads near its rear end of opposite hand to its threads at the front end, and these rear end threads engage threads formed near the rear end of the sleeve so that the stud cannot be turned within the sleeve by ordinary torquing forces. The formation of the rear threads in the sleeve is done by compressing or swaging the rear part of the shank of the sleeve, causing material of the shank to flow into the rear threads of the stud, thereby forming the corresponding rear threads in the shank.To use the fastener to fasten bodies together, the sleeve is protruded through aligned holes in the bodies so that the head of the sleeve abuts the forward face of the bodies, and the forward part of the stud protrudes forwardly from the head. The rear parts of the stud and sleeve protrude outwardly from the bodies being fastened. To set the fastener an extraordinarily great torquing force must be used on the stud, which must result in deformation of the sleeve owing to the presence of the opposite hand threads. This relatively great torquing force is applied at the front end of the stud in the direction which moves the stud forwardly and draws the rear part of the sleeve toward the front part of the sleeve, causing the part of the shank to the rear of the bodies to buckle outwardly and abut the rear body, thereby setting the fastener.
A blind fastener of two piece construction to be placed through a workpiece which is accessable only from one side which may be clamped up by conventional tooling. At installation the blind end of the core of the male core member is drawn into an annealed threaded section of the female nut member forming a bulb in the back of the work area and at the same time providing a deformed thread locking means to resist loosening under vibrations.
The fastening device is in the nature of a rivet wherein a tubular sleeve has a head on one end bearing against one side of the work, and an internally threaded tail. A screw extended through the head and sleeve is threaded into said tail, and is so positioned that the screw head is initially spaced from the head of the sleeve; the shank of the sleeve is slotted and the resulting strips are notched internally at about the middle so that by turning the screw the tail travels toward the head and the strips are folded flat against the other face of the work. In the method of making this fastener, after the hollow rivet with the head is formed, it is positioned in a die, and cutting blades are forced through the wall of the sleeve to cut parallel longitudinal slots dividing the middle portion of the sleeve into strips of arcuate cross section; then the sleeve is held in a die while a tool is inserted and rotated to cut a groove into the strips for facilitating the collapsing of the sleeve; then the screw is inserted into the sleeve and the tail of the sleeve is pressed or swaged into the screw to form the internal thread in the tail and hold the screw. The shank between the sleeve head and the adjacent ends of the slots is approximately equal to the minimum thickness in which the fastener is used. The sleeve head has a recess in both faces to accommodate suitable washers.
A stringed instrument, such as a guitar, having an elongated, relatively rigid frame designed to withstand compression loads greater than the combined tension load of the strings. Flexibly connected at opposite ends to the frame is a fretted neck which is shaped toit the hand of the player, without consideration of structural strength. The strings are attached at opposite ends to the top and bottom ends of the frame, and extend lengthwise over the fretted neck, passing over a bridge and electrical pickup transducer mounted on the frame. The tuning gears for the strings are also mounted on the frame near the bottom end thereof. The fretted neck is connected to a cross piece on the frame by tension-adjusting screws, which can be tightened to exert a tension on the neck so as to pull it straight. The tension load of the strings is carried entirely by the frame, and the fretted neck is supported under tension just below the strings, the said tension serving to pull it straight.
In a compensator system for sporting and target rifles for eliminating gas blow-by, elminating muzzle jump and reducing recoil, method comprising providing gas chamber means external to the barrel of the firearm, gas sealing the chamber in respect to the outside diameter of the barrel except for inlet and outlet port means for the chamber and during firing of the firearm venting gases escaping from the interior of the barrel into the chamber to produce an axially operative forward force which opposes and reduces the force of recoil of the firearm, the venting of the gases being accomplished prior to the bullet reaching the muzzle of the barrel and while the bullet is still sealing the bore of the barrel, thereby eliminating gas blow-by.
A semi-automatic pistol having gas escape ports in the sides of the barrel wall immediately forward of the cartridge chamber, which ports permit gas to escape from the firing chamber. From these ports, the gas is conducted along a pair of elongated gas transfer passageways extending parallel to and disposed on either side of the barrel of the pistol. At the ends of the chambers opposite the aforementioned gas escape ports, and adjacent to the open end of the pistol barrel, these passageways terminate in gas exit ports open to the outside air, which ports extend upwardly and to either side at an acute angle to the vertical. The escape of gas from these ports by reaction tends to force the open end of the pistol barrel downwardly and thus counteracts the tendency of the barrel to move upwardly and to the left upon firing.The tubular members forming the gas passageways are embedded in the pistol stock adjacent the firing chamber, and are retained therein by an annular jacket or cover which, in turn, is retained by a threaded retaining nut screwed into the end of the pistol barrel.
A tool holder has a shank which is mounted in a nonrotatable support which is longitudinally movable toward and from the work. The opposite end of the tool holder has a spindle mounted therein for rotation and provided with a central aperture in which the shank of a broach is secured. The axis of the broach is offset one degree from the axis of the holder which produces a wobble effect to the corners of the broach seriatim to produce rapid cutting of a hole to a predetermined shape. Such shape is of polygonal regular or irregular form developed by the broach. The work piece is rotated and the broach is advanced into engagement with the end face thereof and continually advanced until the broaching operation is completed.
An improved cylinder head for hydrostatic motors of the type having a cylinder barrel defining a plurality of piston bores with the cylinder barrel being rotatable relative to the head for periodically communicating the piston bores with fluid inlet and outlet passages, a portion of the cylinder head forming an expansion chamber and a restrictive orifice for communicating the chamber with each cylinder bore just prior to its respective piston reaching a limit of reciprocation within the bore, fluid flow from the expansion chamber being controlled to provide lubrication for the motor.
A hydraulic, rotary servo-actuator of the type having a casing, a first control valve, an input shaft provided therewithin with hydraulic fluid supply and discharge passageways, and a hydraulically actuated member further has other hydraulic fluid supply and discharge passageways formed within its casing and respectively communicating with a fluid supply source and a fluid reservoir both outside the servo-actuator and a second control valve formed within the casing and operating to communicate and shut off selectively these other passageways respectively with and from the passageways formed within the input shaft thereby to prevent excessive actuated movement of the hydraulically actuated member.
Method and apparatus for converting digital input signals into output positions or velocities employing a flowing medium. A directional control valve receives an input signal and transmits the signal in the form of a flowing medium to a servo valve having a plurality of control ports and a slide with a plurality of closure members to shut off certain of the control ports. Flowing medium proceeds through the valve to actuate a motor means having an operating member. The operating member is directly connected to the slide member of the valve and, therefore, actuation of the operating member operates the slide to close off the control ports, thereby terminating the flowing medium and thusly stopping the operation. The directional control valve can also be hooked in parallel with the servo valve to communicate directly with the motor means.
A fluid cylinder comprising inner and outer tubular members telescopically joined for relative movement between extended and retracted positions. A piston carried by the outer tubular member is slidably disposed in the inner tubular member and the inner end of the inner tubular member forms a second piston. Ports and passages are provided to selectively direct fluid to the areas on opposite sides of each of the two pistons. Various valving arrangements are employed to regulate fluid flow between the various chambers formed within the cylinder to thereby regulate the speed of extension and retraction.
The rotor of a fluid handling machine has axially extending passages therethrough communicating with working chambers for radial pistons and connecting inlet and outlet control ports in a housing surface on one side of the rotor, with correspondingly shaped and arranged balancing chambers in an opposite housing surface on the other side of the rotor so that the different pressures exerted by the inlet and outlet control ports on one side of the rotor, are balanced and the rotor floats between the two housing surfaces.
A radial piston type hydraulic pump or motor comprising one or a plurality of piston cylinder mechanisms arranged radially of a rotatable shaft thereof, and a casing surrounding said piston-cylinder mechanisms and having a waved inner cam surface for co-operation with the outer end of each piston, means being provided to direct a pressurized hydraulic oil between the cylinder wall and the piston at the portion where the piston and the cylinder wall is brought into contact due to the side thrust reaction force acting on the piston so as to counteract said reaction force.
An axial piston unit of the type comprising a drive shaft and a cylinder having an inclined cylinder axis. Support means serve to support the drive shaft, such support means incorporating a substantially ring-shaped hydrostatic axial sliding bearing means acted upon by the pressure of the fluid medium, typically oil for instance. The hydrostatic axial sliding bearing means comprise rotor means and stator means. At least one throttle means is provided for transmitting the pressure of the fluid medium to the hydrostatic sliding bearing means, the throttling action of said throttling means being at least partially suppressed during low pressure of the fluid medium and becoming more pronounced during increasing pressure of the fluid medium.
A vehicle brake actuator comprises an output member which is subject to the action of a first piston working in a cylinder which is pressurised to apply the brake and the biasing force of a spring. A second piston works independently of the first piston in a second cylinder which is normally pressurised to relieve the output member of the spring biasing force. The first piston and the spring are arranged to act on the output member independently of and in parallel with each other.
A brake operating mechanism includes a housing defining a chamber therewithin and a first tubular member slidably mounted in the chamber and extending therefrom. The outer surface of a second tubular member is threadedly engaged with the first tubular member, and the inner diameter of the second tubular member has a polygonal cross section, which slidably receives a shaft which has a corresponding polygonal cross section. A brake actuating rod is urged into engagement with the end of the second tubular member. A spring yieldably urges the actuating rod and the tubular members in a brake applying direction, but is normally opposed by fluid pressure in the chamber. The brake may be released after application by the resilient means by turning the shaft to move the second tubular member away from the actuating rod.
A spring emergency and parking brake which is further air-assisted for added force in the application of the spring emergency brake; that is, there is a combination of air and spring pressure utilized to apply the brakes in an emergency situation when the primary or service air source, normally employed in operating the brakes, fails in one way or another. The source of the air-assisting force is internal to the brake actuator housing and derives from the air used to compress the emergency spring.
A brake cylinder device of the spring actuated and fluid pressure released type characterized by a compound piston having a smaller cylinder and piston nested within a cup-like central portion of a larger piston, all being disposed within an outer cylinder casing of dimensions equivalent to those of the cylinder casing of a conventional single-piston brake cylinder.
A manipulating apparatus for a machine adapted successively to form containers from container blanks, having selectively facingly engageable side panels and construction flaps, utilizing coacting mandrel and die assemblies. The manipulating apparatus has a lever assembly pivotally mounted on the mandrel assembly and a cam interconnects the lever assembly and machine for pivotal movement of the lever assembly into edgeward engagement with the flaps correctly to position the flaps relative to their respective side panels during formation of the container from the blank by the machine.
A method and machine for forming a container from a pair of preformed end panels and a preformed body mat of generally planar form having a central bottom panel and side panels joined thereto with scored fold lines, the mat panels having flanges at the ends thereof. The method and operation of the machine sequentially involve feeding a vertically disposed body mat downwardly and simultaneously applying glue to the end flanges, feeding a spaced pair of vertically disposed end panels into engagement with the bottom panel of the mat, inwardly of the end flanges thereof, moving the mat substantially horizontally, partially folding the bottom panel end flanges toward the end panels, folding the mat side panels into engagement with the end panels, partially folding the side panel end flanges toward the end panels, and completing the folding of the several end flanges into engagement with the respective end panels for adhesively joining the end flanges to the end panels.
An improved compressing apparatus for a container-forming machine providing a frame adapted to position a planar foldable container blank in a substantially planar assembly position with a pair of separate end panels disposed in substantially right-angular relation thereto and including coacting mandrel and die means on the frame operably concurrently to thrust the blank and the end panels through a substantially rectilinear path in a direction normal to the plane of the blank so as to fold the blank about the end panels in a container-forming position with the overlapping portions thereof providing at least one glued surface therebetween. The improvement of the present invention provides blank-compressing means mounted in fixed position on said die means in tightly pressing relation to said folded, overlapping portions of the blank and said end panels during said thrusting operation of the mandrel and die means.
An apparatus and method is disclosed for receiving folded cartons in a vertical manner in a storage chute and to deliver and retain these cartons in a substantially horizontal delivery chute. The cartons are withdrawn one-at-a-time from this horizontal chute by an arm means on which a plurality of suction cups are mounted. By swinging this arm the vacuum cups are brought into engagement with the lowermost carton whereat vacuum is applied to the cups to cause attachment to the carton. The cups and attached carton are then swung to a transporting station. During this swing, cam means engage the moving carton to cause the carton to be erected. At the transport station the erected carton is disengaged from the vacuum cups and then moved to loading operations.
A device for drawing successive flattened cartons downwardly and outwardly from a magazine and placing each carton on a conveyor between two successive, spaced holders on the conveyor in timed relation with the speed at which the holders are moved. As an incident to being drawn from the magazine, each carton is erected and thus is placed on the conveyor in an erected position to be filled with a product. A transfer device for gripping the cartons and delivering the latter from the magazine to the conveyor is moved along a triangular path by the action of two drive mechanisms acting in concert. One drive mechanism is operative to raise and lower the transfer device, and the second is operative to move the transfer device horizontally. To draw the carton out of the magazine and place it on the conveyor, both mechanisms work together thus moving the transfer device downwardly and outwardly toward the conveyor along one leg of the triangle. A dwell means is built into each drive mechanism so that, after the carton is placed on the conveyor, the first mechanism dwells and the second mechanism moves the transfer device in a generally horizontal direction from the conveyor to a position spaced beneath the magazine. Then the second mechanism dwells, and the first mechanism is operable to raise the transfer device into engagement with the terminal carton in the magazine.
Apparatus for feeding blanks, particularly pre-slotted, double-face corrugated blanks, the apparatus having an elongated horizontal conveyor having a discharge end overlying a vertical magazine, said magazine for intermittently advancing blanks in a vertical attitude on said conveyor, causing them to fall to a horizontal attitude at the upper end of said magazine where their descent is temporarily arrested and thereupon permitting them to drop into said magazine.
Improvements in carton loading machines and, in particular, the carton manipulating mechanisms used for opening knocked down cartons. The improvements include a transfer mechanism mounted on a chain so as to be movable in one direction only from a carton loading station to a carton opening station to transfer a carton therebetween. A carton storage means is also provided which includes primary and secondary drive wheels for urging a leading carton to a predetermined pick-off position. The secondary drive wheels are preferably provided at the upper and lower edges of the cartons in the storage means. A suitable detection device is also provided for detecting the presence or absence of a carton at the pick-off position. The detecting means serves to activate the secondary drive means when the absence of a carton is detected. A carton dispenser is also provided for separating the leading carton from a stack of cartons to facilitate its transfer by providing carton engaging means for engaging an outwardly directed face of the of the outermost carton at at least one predetermined location and actuator means for moving the carton engaging means between an inner position and an outer position and stop means for limiting the extent of withdrawal of a predetermined portion of the carton during movement of the carton engaging means from the first position to the second position. The present invention also provides a further improvement in the carton device for use in opening knocked down cartons. The improved opening device includes an opening mechanism which is mounted for rotation about a fixed axis in one direction only.
The grille has a frame which defines an air passage opening and includes a pair of opposed frame segments from which the opposite ends of a plurality of parallel spaced deflector blades are supported for pivotal movement to control the direction of air flowing through the opening. Each frame segment is provided with a channel which carries a friction member made from a relatively resilient material. Cylindrical pivot pins extending from the opposite ends of each deflector blade are pivotally received in respective coaxial apertures provided in the friction member and a wall of the channel. The apertures in the friction member are smaller than the respective pivot pins so as to provide an interference fit which frictionally restrains pivotal movement of the deflector blades. The pivot pin apertures in the friction member and the channel wall are formed in a single operation by forcing a circular punch or the like through both the friction member and the channel wall. Upon withdrawal of the punch, the resulting aperture in the friction member becomes smaller than the pivot pin because of the resilient character of the friction member.
A louvre arrangement comprising a plurality of louvre boards each mounted at their ends by mounting members of thermoplastic materials. The mounting members each including an integral projection, to engage in apertures in a frame of an aperture in a wall which the louvre arrangement is to obstruct, to form bearings about which the louvre boards can be pivoted, and also including an integral projection to form weather stripping to seal the gap between the respective mounting member and the frame.
A heavy duty industrial grille with a frame having adjacent inwardly facing grooves each with parallel end and side sections. A resilient strip of bearing material is provided in end sections of one groove and in side sections of the other and each strip has a series of bearing openings therein which receive bearing studs at end portions of air directing vanes. The vanes are arranged in first and second series at right angles with respect to each other and at least one series of vanes has an associated connecting link and actuator for gang adjustment.
A louver for a jalousie window is provided with an end clip by which the louver is pivotally supported on the window frame and to which rotary movement is imparted to operate the louvers. The clip is integrally formed from a synthetic plastic material and has two pins with enlarged heads which are transversely compressible providing, respectively, pivotal support means and connection to the louver operating means, allowing the clip to be easily installed by an unskilled person using only manual pressure, and has a washer integrally formed at the base of each pin which separates the clip from its support and reduces friction between them, and has a flexible fin formed on the bottom surface of the clip to seal the joint between the clip and its support. Two elongated strips are provided in the window opening which, respectively, support the pivot pins and provide the operating means for rotating the clips, these strips being flexible to permit them to be coiled for shipment from factory to job.
A control damper is provided with a pair of transversely polygonal axle members for mounting the damper vane on a supporting frame. The axle members are received within complementally polygonal channels at each end of the damper vane and are held in the channels by retainer components which bridge the respective channels. When the axle members are inserted into the channels, the retainer components are placed under tension to assure a tight interengagement of the axle members with the vane. A section of the frame adjacent each axle presents an integral outturned collar which serves as a bearing surface for a bushing received upon the end of each axle member. A multiple-flanged sealing member disposed on the inside of the frame provides for a tight fit between the vane and the sealing surface of the frame while reducing the tolerance requirements between the vane and the frame. The frame is provided with heavy, relatively rigid corner braces which provide added strength to the frame structure. The frame sections are rigidly secured to the braces by deforming a portion of the relative malleable frame section material into appropriate cavities in the corner braces.Directional control of the damper vane is achieved through a reversible link which is coupled with an arm rigid with one of the axle members and also with an actuating lever. A motor mounting bracket for supporting a prime mover for the actuating lever is provided by a pair of planar members, each of which is secured to the damper frame in a flat disposition and each of which is provided with a line of weakness to allow bending of the planar members into two perpendicular bracket sections which have interengaging tab projections.
The flavor of milk foodstuffs is enhanced with a good dairy flavor in a simpler way and in a shorter time by contacting the foodstuff with an enzyme-containing substance derived from a microorganism belonging to the Basidiomycetes group.
A process for producing a milk clotting enzyme by fermentation which comprises culturing a micro-organism belonging to the genus Irpex, Fomitopsis, Coriolus or Lenzites in a nutrient medium under aerobic conditions. The enzyme accumulates in the culture liquor and may be recovered therefrom and treated so as to give a solid enzyme product useful, for example, in manufacturing cheese.
In the preparation of coffee by pouring hot water over coffee grounds disposed over a filter in a cylindrical container, a float member is first placed on top of the grounds to deflect the water as it is poured in, thereby preventing the impact from the pour stream from driving the grounds into the filter mesh openings.
A spring carried by a twist-on type cover for a percolator is compressed against the spreader plate to push the cover away from the top of the percolator vessel to provide a visual indication when the cover is not locked to the vessel.
A device to support food in a desired position relative to a fire or other heat source by which the food is cooked. A frame including at least two frame members movably connected together each having a plurality of sides, at least two of which have movable portions serving to vary the configuration or size of the frame, is positioned on a charcoal grill or in an oven and includes a plurality of correspondingly positioned notches and/or apertures designed to movably engage one or more skewers on which the food is mounted. Each frame member may be correspondingly configured and defined by at least one baseside and at least two oppositely correspondingly dimensioned mating sides wherein the shorter of said two slidingly engages the longer of the two sides on the other frame part defining said frame. The skewers may include a plurality of flats arranged thereon in spaced relation to one another and specifically configurated to prevent rotation of the food relative to the skewer upon turning of the skewer in the notches.
A cooking grill of the outdoor type for use with solid or gaseous fuel having improved skewer and skewer means. The supports for the skewers are an integral part of the grill receptacle. The skewers are provided with collar means for preventing accidental displacement of the skewers when they are positioned in their supports.
A device for hanging onto the rim of a cooking vessel and suspending a number of stick-carried food items, such as batter-coated wieners, in a cooking medium, such as frying oil, contained in the vessel. The device comprises an elongate frame member preferably bent upon itself in either a closed or open loop formation, a plurality of hooks for suspending the frame member from the rim of a cooking vessel, and several clips attached to the frame member in spaced relationship along its length with each clip adapted to receive the end of a stick having a food item impaled thereon, whereby the food item on the stick is suspended in the cooking medium.
An automatic apparatus for broiling foods in the spitted form in which the spits of food are hung down from the holding arm of the circulating carrier are heated and then soy or the like liquid seasoning is applied and heated again and finished. Finished food is automatically released from the holding arm and is applied and heated again and received in a tray.
An apparatus for manufacturing "wantans containing fillers" comprises cutting means to divide a continuous raw layer into small raw slices, first conveyor for conveying the raw slices with a mounting member on which the raw slices are disposed, second conveyer for conveying cylinders which push the raw slices to form a recess therein and introduce fillers in the formed recess. Said mounting member is provided with a shaping frame thereunder to close the opening of the recess filled with fillers.
A powder filling machine as described in which the powder is introduced into a large vessel, its surface smoothed and the powder raked. The intermittent turntable is provided which can both lower and raise measuring chambers and also move them to different stations one of them being over containers to be filled. In one station the measuring chambers are lowered into the powder and vacuum sucks each full. The chamber provided with a screen so that powder cannot be sucked out of the chamber, a small excess is sucked beyond the bottom of the chamber which is open. The chamber then moves across a string or wire which scrapes off the excess powder. Then the chamber is moved to another station over a container to be filled, lowered in contact with it and connected to gas under pressure which blows the contents of the chamber into the container. The container is advanced bringing another container into loading position and the operations described above are repeated. When loading powder which is explosive or hazardous all metal to metal contact is avoided.
A dispensing freezer is divided into a heated zone and a cooled zone. Dry and liquid ingredients are proportionately mixed in the heated zone and allowed to free-fall through a transition zone into the cooled zone. The temperatures in the heated and cooled zones are such that bacteria growth is inhibited and no product touches the surfaces in the transition zone where bacteria growth can more readily occur. The cooling zone has a freezing chamber and a reservoir. A float operated switch senses the level of the liquid in the reservoir and controls the dispensing and mixing of fresh ingredients.
A food concentrate is prepared in the container by dialysis of a liquid food product portion sealed in a film bag or other container having a semi-permeable membrane wall, against a suitable aqueous salt dialyzing solution.
Drying slurry coatings on expendable patterns in making investment casting ceramic shell molds by moving the slurry coated patterns slowly through a fluidized bed of desiccant, and continuously reactivating the desiccant to provide an automated desiccant shell drying and desiccant reactivation process.
An annular carousel has an inner circumferential series of pairs of cups to hold radially inwardly facing halves of citrus fruit and a rotary reamer assembly inside the inner circumference of the annular carousel in tangential relation thereto and synchroinzed therewith has pairs of radially outwardly extending reamers to cooperate with the pairs of cups. A cup cycle starts with the two cups of each pair facing radially inwardly one above the other. The lower cup is swung upward 90.degree. to a loading position to receive a new fruit and then is swung upward another 90.degree. to close the two cups together to hold the fruit for a bisecting operation. The lower cup is then swung downward to the starting position for the reaming operation. Above each pair of cups is a magazine to hold a plurality of fruit and a fruit is discharged from the bottom of a magazine to the corresponding lower cup at a loading point in the revolution of the carousel. Throughout each entire revolution of the annular carousel, all of the magazines are exposed to the underside of a supply mass of fruit to insure filling of the magazines for maximum production by the apparatus.
This device is solenoid operated for efficiently cracking pecan nuts. The device consists primarily of a solenoid actuated weight which when striking a pivotable arm member of the device, will crack the shell of the nut which is placed between the arm member and a piston member carried within a sleeve.
An anvil member and an impact member are guided for independent movement in alignment with each other and provided with relatively adjacent socketed ends for holding between them a nut to be cracked. A hammer is guided for movement in alignment with the impact member and resilient means are provided for urging the hammer into striking engagement with the impact member. For periodically retracting the hammer against such resilient means and releasing it on each cracking stroke, there is provided a sprocket having means for engaging and retracting the hammer throughout a portion of the movement of the sprocket chain and then releasing the hammer to commence its stroke. The anvil member is provided with a longitudinal slot opening through its socketed end and guiding it on a track for movement toward and away from the impact member, the arrangement being such that the end of the track is movable through the slot to clear the socketed end of the anvil as the anvil is retracted.For confining the shell fragments as the nut is cracked, a shield is telescopically disposed on the anvil member for projection toward the impact member to encompass a nut held between the two members.
A safety device for a skinning machine is disclosed herein. The skinning machine comprises a frame means having a driven roll rotatably mounted thereon and a skinning blade closely positioned thereto. A feed tray is mounted on the frame means and has one end thereof positioned adjacent the driven roll and skinning blade. A movable shield is positioned between the inner end of the feed tray and extends upwardly towards the driven roll and skinning blade. The shield is movable from a first position on the frame means to a safety position on the frame means. The shield permits the product being skinned to move into contact with the skinning blade when the shield is in its first position. The shield shields the driven roll and the skinning blade when the shield is in its safety position to prevent the machine operator from engaging the blade. The shield is mounted on a frame means and has a safety bar connected thereto.
A bacon derinding machine comprises a knife which is preferably adjustable to different derinding thicknesses and to total derinding of a material to be derinded; a traction roller for conveying the material up to said knife, the arrangement being such that a gap is left between the cutting edge of the knife and the traction roller, and a feed table having a supporting surface which is generally on a level somewhat lower than that of the gap between said cutting edge and said traction roller, the supporting surface of the feed table having within range of its end extending up to a position close to the cutting edge of the knife an end section which extends upwardly and away from the traction roller.
A strapping machine comprising: a table to place a package thereon disposed in the upper portion of a base section, being slidably supported by guide pieces; a band feeding device to feed a band in such a way that said band is fed and directed from the under side of said table upwardly through an opening, defined in the upper portion of said base section, in a direction perpendicular to the direction of movement of the table, so as to form a loop thereof encircling the table and the package and then directed toward the under side of the table again for the purpose to be clamped with the leading end portion of the band between the table and a clip means, and to draw back said band for tensioning thereof after the leading end portion of the band is clamped; a clip means installed under said table to clamp the leading end portion of the band with cooperation between the upper surface thereof and the lower surface of the table by rising itself upwardly toward the table with the intermediate of the leading end portion of the band; a heat sealing device adapted to melt the opposing surfaces of the overlapping portions of the tensioned band by means of a heat member attached to a press member mounted oscillatably to the base section in order to weld together the melted opposing surfaces of the overlapping portions of the band by pressing thereof with a press surface defined in the press member, and also adapted to cut the band at a point of the overlapping portions thereof positioning just under said heat sealing device after having been welded together by pressing; and a driving device to operate said table, clip means and heat sealing device.
Apparatus for applying plastic strapping comprises a base which defines a work platform and a joint-forming station. A complementary strap supply includes a source of strapping and a strap-feeding arrangement mounted in the base for controllably advancing strapping material toward the joint-forming station. Cooperative joint-forming heads are mounted for converging movement toward the work station, one of the heads including a strap-gripping arrangement and the other head including guide means for controllably feeding the strapping material. In addition, joint-forming means are provided and include a transfer member mounted in the base and an outlet member mounted in one of the heads to cooperate in forming joints in the strapping.
A device for cutting and welding a plastic band for use in an automatic strapping machine, which comprises: a table provided with a cutting and welding mechanism thereunder; an upper band holding member which is supposed to hold the tip of the strapping band when said band is completely fed to cover the full length of the bottom of the table; a lower band holding member having a projection, which is disposed under the upper band holding member; and pectinate heat blades which are supposed to melt and penetrate the overlapped two portions of the band and thereafter weld them by the energy of a press member.
A press for treating household refuse, comminutes, mixes and moistens the refuse with water, and then feeds the refuse alternately to compression chambers arranged coaxially in which the refuse is alternately compressed by a double acting tandem piston. Swinging doors close the tops and bottoms of the compression chambers. Perforated tubes are reciprocably insertable in the refuse in the compression chamber from the side opposite the piston, and the extracted liquid sludge is withdrawn through these tubes.
A refuse baler having a conveyor system, a supercharger, an elongated bale forming tunnel, and two spaced apart bale forming pistons reciprocatingly received therein; with each piston being actuated by a common power means. The bale forming tunnel has a movable wall portion at each extremity thereof which cooperates with the piston and power means to extrude a continuous length of refuse which is of consistent density. A bale breaker separates the extruded refuse into individual bales of uniform length.
A garbage compactor has a compacting chamber into which garbage, including refuse is compacted by a ram, after which the garbage is ejected into a portable container. A hydraulic and electrical operating and control system permits the compactor to operate without constant attendance by an operator.
An apparatus for continuous processing of raw refuse composed primarily of food wastes and incorporating other wastes such as limited quantities of paper and plastic material wherein the raw refuse material is comminuted and conveyed to a pair of heated platen members and is continuously deposited between the platen members. The heated platens are caused to revolve continuously in such manner as to define a space between the platen members during a portion of each revolution to allow raw refuse material to be conveyed between the platens for depositing, and to cause the heated platens to move into juxtaposition during other portions of each revolution, thereby compressing the comminuted refuse placed therebetween. The platens are caused to revolve at a particular speed that insures compression and complete drying of the refuse during one revolution of the platens. After being compressed and dried by the heated revolving platens the cured refuse is scraped from the platens and is conveyed to a receiving vessel such as a hopper, where the cured refuse may be placed into containers in flake or wafer form or where the cured refuse may be comminuted and then placed into containers.
A color bar code printer for printing on a tag member a plurality of contiguous color bars representing coded information including a plurality of set-up dials having digit information displayed on their edges, each digit being displayed with a plurality of color bar indicia displayed adjacent thereto, the dials being set to display the information to be encoded with adjacent matching color bar indicia, means for positioning selecting plates commensurate with the position of a corresponding set-up dial, the selecting plates having control surfaces located thereon, sensing means for sensing the position of the control surfaces on the selecting plates, and a plurality of color bar type wheels settable under the control of the sensing means to print on a tag member coded color bars representing the information set up on the dials.
A data board and data recording machine. The data board is insertable into the data recording machine. The data board has operator positionable stop means and the data recording machine has printing wheels connected to sensing rods; the sensing rods sense the position of the stop means and set the printing wheels in response thereto. A printing member plate and print receiving form are carried by the board and the information on the printing wheels and plate are printed on the form.
An end ring for supporting a thin, perforate cylindrical printing member the end ring having printing member supporting and securing structure comprising integral electrical insulating plastic first, second, third, and fourth coaxial cylindrical portions. The first and third portions have a first outer diameter substantially equal to the inner diameter of the perforate member, the second portion has an outer diameter less than that first outer diameter and also has a roughened outer cylindrical surface, and the fourth portion has an outer diameter equal to the outer diameter of the perforate member. Also shown is a printing roll unit comprising a cylindrical perforate member secured, at each end, to such an end ring by an adhesive disposed on the roughened surface of the end ring's second portion.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to printing or coloring operations in which a cylindrical perforate printing member is employed, and, more particularly, to the support and reinforcement of such a cylindrical perforate printing member. Printing apparatus employing such printing members is discussed in Van Der Winden, U.S. Pat. No. 3,304,860.In a typical construction a printing roll has heretofore comprised a nickel screen supported on aluminum end rings. The useful lifetime of rolls employing this construction has been limited by at least three problems: loosening of the end rings, damage to screens when printing Azoic colors, and damage to screens when printing cationic or basic colors.SUMMARY OF INVENTIONPrincipal objects of the present invention are the provision of improved support for such a printing member so as to simplify the manufacture, and prolong the useful lifetime, of a printing roll comprising such a member and the means of support.According to the present invention, it has been discovered that the problems which developed with prior constructions are dependent to a previously unsuspected degree upon certain design parameters involving materials and dimensions. Thus, the loose end ring problem has typically involved separation of the end ring from the screen due to failure of the adhesive bond. The solution which reduced loose end rings to a minimum was use of an end ring formed from a plastic material. The improvement is apparently the result of increased bonding surface on the end ring, improved adhesion of the adhesive (e.g., Epoxy) to the plastic, and a true "round" end ring (as compared to "off-round" for the aluminum end rings). Also, increased surface area of the end ring where it engages the screen has been provided and has resulted in fewer damaged screens in the infrequent instances of end ring loosening.The problem of damaged screens in the printing of Azoic colors was resolved by the discovery of the existance of a galvanic cell involving the aluminum end ring as the anode, the nickel screen as the cathode, and the strongly alkaline printing paste as the electrolyte. In such a cell, the anode is subjected to oxidation (corrosion) and the cathode to reduction. Hydrogen plates out on the cathode. While this is protective with most metals, in the case of nickel the hydrogen is absorbed into the nickel, the effect being referred to as "Hydrogen Charging." We have found that nickel in this state is very brittle and that this has caused screen ruptures. The breaks in the screens have been found in the form of small slits 1/2 to 1 inch long running parallel to the screen circumference and within several inches from the end ring-and-screen joining. Very likely the embrittled area of the screen could not tolerate the flexing normally involved or responded to variations in torque action.Again, according to the invention, the solution was found in a plastic end ring. Being non-conductive, the plastic end rings served to eliminate the cell by electrically isolating the nickel screen.The problem of damaged screens in the printing of cationic or basic colors was also resolved by discovery of the existance of a galvanic cell involving the conventional aluminum end ring as the cathode, the nickel screen as the anode, and the acid printing paste as the electrolyte. The acids generally used include Acetic, Citric and Ammonium Sulfate. The action which takes place has been discovered to be a deplating of nickel from the screen. Measurements have been made of nickel screen thickness to show the thickness reduced from an original 0.003/0.0035 inch down to 0.001/0.0015 inch. At the reduced thickness, the screen cannot support the torque action of printing or even its own weight and collapses.The galvanic cell involved in the printing of cationics is the reverse of that in the case of Azoic colors. The development and use of plastic end rings solved this problem also by eliminating the cell in isolating the nickel screen electrically.More specifically, according to the invention an end ring is provided for supporting a thin, perforate, cylindrical printing member. The end ring is made from an insulating plastic and comprises first, second, third, and fourth coaxial cylindrical portions. The first and third portions have a first outer diameter substantially equal to the inner diameter of the perforate member and the fourth portion has an outer diameter substantially equal to the outer diameter of the perforate member. The second cylindrical portion has an outer diameter less than the outer diameter of the first cylindrical portion and has a roughened outer cylindrical surface, thereby providing an appropriate surface for receiving an adhesive for bonding of the perforate member to the end ring. In preferred embodiments the outer diameter of the second portion is approximately 0.020 inch less than the outer diameter of the first portion; each of the first and third portions has an axial length equal to at least one half the axial length of the second portion; and the first portion is greater in axial length than the second portion.In another aspect of the invention a printing roll unit is provided which comprises a thin, perforate, metallic, open-end cylindrical member having a predetermined inner diameter and a predetermined outer diameter. The roll also comprises a pair of unitary insulating plastic end rings disposed respectively in the open-ends of the perforate member. Preferably, each ring comprises first, second, third, and fourth coaxial cylindrical portions having diameters and surfaces as described above. An adhesive is disposed on the roughened surface of the second portion and contacts the portion of the perforate member overlying that surface.
A device for a screen printing machine for exchangeably receiving and longitudinally stretching a rotary screen having end pieces. Rotary heads are arranged on the frame of the machine on both sides for connection to the end pieces. One of the rotary heads is adjustable in the longitudinal direction of the screen. Connecting means for the endpieces and rotary heads are provided essentially perpendicular to the axis of the screen for releasably coupling the end pieces and rotary heads. Such connecting means of the endpieces extend radially and the cooperating connecting means of the rotary heads also extend radially so that, when mounting the rotary screen on the rotary heads transversely to the screen axis, the connecting means are movable in axial direction for engaging over the cooperating connecting means. Means are provided for force-locking the connection by axial displacement of one of said rotary heads.
Support discs are arranged normal to the screen axis and on opposite endpieces of the cylindrical screen, and portions of the screen holder aredisposed in the space between the axially normal support discs of thescreen end pieces and the cylindrical screen per se, whereby the supportdiscs of the screen end pieces are rotatably supported adjacent thecylindrical screen by axial bearings carried preferably by the discs andengaging on portions of the screen holder as interposed between theaxially normal support discs and the cylindrical screen. The supportdiscs are preferably interchangeable on different screens and arepreferably formed as radially projecting annular discs. Furthermore thesupport disc of at least one of the two screen end pieces can have outerperipheral serrations to serve as a ratio wheel and/or synchronousdriving wheel of the cylindrical screen.
There is disclosed an improved rotary screen printing machine of the type wherein the printing stations are each equipped with a circular printing screen which, as required, can be removed and again remounted. According to an important aspect of the invention, the circular printing screen is secured through the agency of a resiliently biased intermediate member to the mounting or support disk means arranged at the machine frame.
A screen-printing frame having a screen-tensioning arrangement including a frame supporting a channel member which receives a locking bar. The screen material is positioned over the channel and the locking bar inserted to force the screen into the channel where it is positively gripped. Means is provided to move the channel relative to the frame to provide for tensioning after the screen is securely gripped. The tension on the screen serves to move the locking bar into tighter engagement with the channel, thus increasing the grip on the screen. Resilient means is provided in the bottom of the channel to maintain the screen material in engagement with the locking bar during initial insertion and rotation of the bar to the locked position. The screen material may be easily removed and other screen material with or without an image installed.
An offset printing machine which is provided with a printing operation step switching member having an automatic-non-automatic switching actuating member and operative to carry out a master plate feed step in which a master plate is supplied to a master cylinder, an etching solution application step in which an ink-repellent etching solution is applied to the master plate mounted on the master cylinder and a master plate discharge step in which the master plate is removed and discharged from the master cylinder upon completion of duplication of the master plate.
An etcher assembly for etching a master cylinder of a duplicating machine supported between the side plates of the duplicating machine. The etcher assembly includes a rotatably mounted metering roller that is partially disposed within a fountain mounted on the duplicating machine, and an etch applicator roller rotatably supported between two parallel support arms that are adapted to swing about the shaft of the metering roller. A pair of return springs constantly urge the etch applicator roller into contact with the metering roller.
A device for switching between automatic and non-automatic master plate feeding and discharging operations, such device being adapted for use with offset printing machines of the type in which an actuation member is operated in steps for causing the printing machines to perform a series of operations required for duplicating a master process. These operations include a master plate feeding operation for feeding a master plate to a master cylinder, an etching operation for applying an ink repellent etching solution to the master plate mounted on the master cylinder, an inking operation for applying ink to the master plate, a copy sheet feeding operation for feeding one copy sheet after another between blanket and impression cylinders, a master plate removal operation for removing the master plate from the master cylinder after completion of duplication, and a blanket cylinder cleaning operation. The device comprises an automatic, non-automatic switching actuation member capable of moving relative to said actuation member. If the actuation member is operated after the switching actuation member is operated, then the master plate feeding and removing operations can be performed automatically.
Control logic for the print wheel and hammer of a high speed printing apparatus includes a read only memory containing identification words related to the sequential character position of the rotary printing wheel. These identification words are accessed by inputed ASCII characters and compared with the actual position of the print wheel to provide a difference count which drives the print wheel to its new location. The identification words of the print wheel characters are stored in two's complement format to provide for easy differencing with the actual print wheel position. Also, the identification words in read only memory contain an additional binary bit which provides information to the hammer logic unit as to whether the specific character is to be hit hard or lightly.
Each type action of a typewriter has a drive member connected with the type bar and a coupling member pivotally mounted on the drive member and cooperating in a coupled position with a power roll. The coupling member has a camming surface cooperating with an adjustable guide means mounted on the supporting frame of the typewriter, and camming the coupling member out of engagement with the power roll. By adjustment of the guide means different impacts of the type bar can be obtained, as required by types having different surface areas, or if particularly great numbers of copies have to be made.
An electric typewriter in which a printed circuit board is arranged under the keys of the keyboard, respective conductive areas of the circuit being associated with the keys and connected conductively to an amplifier through a synchronizing mechanism, the types being moved against a paper wrapped about a cylinder when the associated key is depressed toward the printed circuit.
Apparatus for printing characters with an impact intensity varying according to the surface area of the character being printed. Included in the apparatus is a cyclically movable character bearing member, such as a rotary print wheel or drum or an endless belt and one or more print hammers cooperable with the member forming a printing couple for printing characters. An electromagnetic field produced by a solenoid initiates the flight of the hammer against a document which may be moved relatively thereto as the printing operation is performed. The current through the solenoid coil is limited by resisters of different values which are controlled by electrical gates for selectively varying the amount of current supplied to the coil for driving the hammer. The timing of the printing is kept in synchronization with the document movement by means of an electromechanical clock capable of dividing each character position into an equal number of zones. During the operation of the printing apparatus, the sequence of accessing the digits to be printed, positioning the print wheel, and firing the hammer continues as the document moves through the apparatus. Associated with the print wheel and jointly rotatable therewith is a disk having a plurality of coded positions represented by apertures therein each position representing a printing character position on the print wheel.
A typing rate control for type bar typewriters to permit the realization of optimum overall typing rates wherein the code identification of a selected type bar, coded according to its position in a type basket, is held stored and is operative to call and cause the type bar it represents to print. The relative type bar position of the next to be called type bar and that of the type bar position in storage is ascertained by high speed counting logic circuitry and used to delay the call of the next type bar only over that time interval necessary to assure that the previously called type bar is out of the way.
The aisle section of outdoor walk-in type switchgear is telescoped over the front of the switchboard during shipment and is telescoped outwardly and is assembled with an aisle floor when delivered to its site of installation. Lifting and shipping members are provided as integral parts of the telescoping assembly.
A photosensitive composition comprising (A) about 100 parts by weight of an unsaturated polyester produced from an alcoholic component comprising at least one polyol and an acidic component comprising at least one unsaturated dicarboxylic acid, its anhydride or its methyl or ethyl ester and having an average molecular weight of about 400 to 30,000 and ethylenic double bond equivalent of about 160 to 3,200, (B) about 1 to 50 parts by weight of an ethylenically unsaturated compound (i) of the formula ##SPC1##WhereinR.sub.2 represents a hydrogen atom or methyl group; andR.sub.3, r.sub.4 r.sub.5 and R.sub.6 represent an alkyl group or cycloalkyl group having at most 10 carbon atoms,And about 10 to 100 parts by weight of a compound (ii) of the formula ##SPC2##WhereinR.sub.1 represents a hydrogen atom or methyl group;m is an integer from 2 to 4; andx represents a radical of a polyol having a molecular weight of at most 1,000 and m terminal hydroxy groups from which the terminal hydroxy groups are excluded, and, (C) about0.0001 to 10 parts by weight of a photopolymerization initiator.The compositions are exposed to a light source through an image-bearing transparency to effect polymerization, and unpolymerized unexposed monomer is washed away, leaving a relief structure suitable for printing plates. The plates are characterized by good flexibility, hardness and water resistance.
N-3-Oxohydrocarbon-substituted acrylamides, especially diacetone acrylamide, are used as cross-linking monomers for unsaturated polyesters, either alone or in combination with known cross-linking monomers such as styrene and diallyl phthalate. The curable compositions thus formed may be used in the preparation of nonblocking "prepregs" which, upon stacking and molding, form laminates with excellent properties. They are also suitable for forming physically or chemically thickened premixes. In the chemically thickened ones, which employ a metal salt or hydroxide as a reactive thickener, an acidic reagent (usually a polymerizable acid such as methacrylic acid) may be used to accelerate B-stage resin formation.
The invention is a system utilizing cylindrically shaped saddles for mounting flexible printing plates. The leading edges of said saddles are designed to securely grip one end of a printing plate with a cam biased clamping bar. The trailing edge of said saddles include a slotted member to retain the other end of said printing plate, said slotted member being spring biased to tension said printing plate. A separate tool which interacts between the leading edge of one saddle and the trailing edge of another saddle when both saddles are mounted on press is utilized to override the spring biasing of the slotted member.
A curved saddle for supporting and tensioning a flexible printing plate which has a series of closely spaced appertures along opposite edge portions. Each end of the saddle is provided with a circumferentially moveable spring biased bar having a series of spaced lugs over which opposite ends of the appertured plate may be positioned and secured. To facilitate positioning of the plate over the bar lugs, each bar has a locking mechanism which secures the bar in a retracted position upon manually moving the bar to that position. After a plate is secured to the bar, the locking mechanism may be readily released by depressing an actuating plunger, thereby permitting the bar to be urged under the spring biasing force to an outwardly extended plate tensioning position.
A printing plate cylinder saddle is provided with construction features for mounting on a printing plate cylinder and for attaching a thin, flexible printing plate. Identical plate engaging assemblies are provided at each end of the saddle and are selectively operable to releasably clamp and interlock the lead edge of the flexible plate in register along the lead edge of the saddle or to interlock and exert a constant tension upon the tail edge of the flexible plate along the trailing edge of the saddle.
A semi-cylindrical adapter shell or "saddle," around which is bent a thin arcuate metal or plastic printing plate, and bolted in pairs to the cylinders of newspaper printing presses to replace the now obsolescent stereotypes, has transversely spaced pins on its opposite ends projecting through holes in the inwardly bent ends or flaps of the printing plate. The pins on the leading end are fixed whereas those on the trailing end are movable by being mounted on a transverse spring-loaded foot bar carried by arcuate guide arms slidable circumferentially in arcuate guide grooves in the saddle and urged circumferentially away from the saddle by springs which tightly stretch the printing plate circumferentially around the saddle in snugly fitting surface-to-surface engagement from end to end of the printing plate. A rotary cam tool insertable in a radial hole in the cylinder in the gap between the adjacent ends of a pair of saddles mounted on the cylinder enables the foot bar to be temporarily retracted during mounting of the printing plate on the saddle.
A plate lock-up mechanism which includes a longitudinally extending mounting bar for securing the end of a printing plate and recessed, for limited circumferential and axial movement, in a groove formed in the plate cylinder. Adjustment in the two directions is obtained by circumferentially extending and axially extending screws engaging the walls of the groove. Seated in the groove at each end of the bar is a reference member having flat, circumferentially facing and axially facing surfaces. Mounted on the ends of the bar and overlying the reference members are index member having corresponding circumferentially and axially facing surfaces. The members are adjusted to such position that when the bar and plate occupy a reference position with respect to the cylinder, the circumferentially facing and axially facing surfaces on the members are in precise coplanar alinement, the surfaces being spaced closely edge-to-edge and sufficiently extensive so that the coplanar relationship may be detected by sight or touch. During subsequent adjustment to achieve registration of the printed impressions, the amount of offset of the index surfaces with respect to the reference surfaces provides constant and exact indication of the degree of circumferential offset, axial offset and skew of the plate. In a preferred form of the invention a series of mounting bars are spaced end to end in the groove with axial adjusting screws interposed between them, and in the end positions, for independent axial adjustment of the bars. The adjusting screws are free to shift laterally so that the adjustments in the two directions may be made independently. Pins on the mounting bar engage registering notches at the end of the plate. A clamping rail extending along the mounting bar serves to clamp the plate to the mounting bar, the clamping rail being relieved in the region of the pins to provide constant visual indication that the plate is fully inserted and registered with the mounting bar.In lithographic multi-color printing the different colors of ink are applied successively to the sheet by successive printing units using flexible printing plates. For precise, superimposed register of the printed impressions provisions must be made in the lock-up mechanism for slightly adjusting the position of the plate on the plate cylinder in circumferential position, axial position and, in some cases, skew. The amount of offset from the reference position is usually extremely small and must be susceptible to precise control. One of the problems faced by a pressman during setup is to establish a precise initial reference condition for each of the plates which may be employed as a basis, or starting point, for the subsequent, minute adjustment necessary to produce exact register. In conventional lock-ups for flexible printing plates it is difficult for the pressman to know when the lock-up, and printing plate, are in the desired reference condition.It is, accordingly, an object of the present invention to provide a lock-up and adjusting mechanism for flexible printing plates having immproved means for indicating to the pressman that each printing plate in the press is in a precise reference position on its plate cylinder, and hence that all of the plates are referenced to one another, in readiness for the making of the final adjustment. It is a related object to provide means giving a constant and exact indication of the amount of offset, or incremental adjustment, necessary for precise register of the impressions made by a number of differently inked plates. It is a more specific object to provide a lock-up mechanism which includes a mounting bar for registrably engaging the end of a flexible printing plate and which is provided with index members at the end of the bar which cooperate with similarly shaped reference members, the members having respective circumferentially facing and axially facing surfaces in close proximity, edge to edge, and which may be brought into visual alinement by turning of the respective adjusting screws to bring the mounting bar and plate into a precise reference position with respect to the printing cylinder as a starting point for the making of register adjustments. It is an object of the invention to provide an index which may be felt or "sighted" to establish the plate in an initial condition and which may be observed, either sensibly or by a gauge, in order to determine the direction and degree of offset of the plate from the reference condition.It is an object of the invention in another of its aspects to provide register-indicating and adjusting means which is not only simple and inexpensive but which is durable and which retains an accurate reference setting even in the face of hard and continuous usage.It is a related object of the present invention to provide a plate lock-up and adjusting mechanism which not only provides visual indication of the initial condition and subsequent condition of registered adjustment but in which the adjustments themselves, circumferentially, axially, and in skew, may be made quickly and easily substantially independently of one another, and in which adjustment, once made, is preserved during the running of the press.In one of the aspects of the present invention it is an object to provide means for securely clamping the end of the plate to the mounting bar, with the clamping rail being so constructed that the relationship between the plate and locator pins may be verified at a glance without necessity for disturbing the clamped condition.
An offset printing cylinder form is provided with a clamping apparatus comprising a pair of supporting members spaced apart and parallel to the axis of the cylinder adjacent the periphery thereof. Each of the supporting members mounts a clamp bar spaced therefrom, between which are mounted bearing means in which eccentrically rotatable shaft rods are located. A manual lever is provided for rotating the shaft rods into and out of engagement with the clamping bar. Latch means for holding the shafts thus engaged are also provided.
A device comprising clamp means including hooks for piercing the trailing end portion of a sheet after the leading end portion of the sheet is automatically gripped by grip claw means on a rotating drum and the sheet is wound on the drum. By being pierced by the hooks, the trailing end portion of the sheet is automatically clamped to the periphery of the drum.
A device for retaining the trailing end of a master sheet on a printing machine drum includes a retainer member movable between an open position for receiving the trailing end and a closed position for holding the trailing end of the master sheet. An actuating means, provided on an impression cylinder in printing relationship with the printing machine drum, acts against the trailing end of the master sheet which acts against the retainer member in such a way as to move the retainer member to the open position and the trailing end of the master sheet under the retainer member. Spring means is provided for restoring the retainer member to the closed position and for maintaining it closed and in holding engagement with the trailing end of the master sheet during a printing operation.
An etching solution application device comprising an etching solution application roller for applying an ink-repellent etching solution to a master plate mounted on a master cylinder of an offset printing machine which device operates such that an etching solution can be supplied to the etching solution application roller before it presses against a master plate on a master cylinder. The device also operates such that the etching solution application roller is rendered inoperative during steps other than the etching step in which the etching solution application roller presses against the master plate on the master cylinder to apply the etching solution to the master plate and the master plate discharge step in which the master plate on the master cylinder is removed and discharged from the master cylinder, or during the inking step and duplication step.
A system for accumulating data in both human readable and encoded form. The system includes master source documents containing homogeneous permanent magnet material capable of being magnetized throughout in discrete patterns providing intense external magnetic fields representative of encoded data. These fields attract magnetic toner powder to the surface of a transfer sheet to form a visible and machine readable magnetic image of the encoded data. The data is subsequently sensed from the transfer sheet to produce electrical signals for processing in electronic data processing equipment. In one embodiment, both identity and transaction data are presented in the form of discrete patterns providing intense external magnetic fields. In a further embodiment, a duplicate record is simultaneously magnetically recorded onto a magnetic recording medium by contact recording techniques.
An electrical process for simultaneously printing one or more copies of an image from a master applied in the form of a pattern of electrical conductors, e.g. a printed circuit, a pattern of magnetized areas, or a pattern of electrostatic charged areas wherein the patterns are operated upon by a remote electrical or magnetic field creating a force pattern on a pressure sensitive marking medium to transfer dye or color markings onto one copy or plural copies simultaneously. The force pattern may be amplified or enhanced by applying a current directly to the pattern of conductors to electrodynamically react with the field.
Method of making a sheeting material which is capable of having graphic subject matter produced thereon and erased therefrom by a magnetic stylus and wherein one sheet of the material can have reproduced thereon graphic subject matter present on another sheet.
Apparatus for display and printing of received information by means of a continuous recording band of stainless steel of the type which when selectively magnetized forms the resulting information pattern throughout the thickness of the band. The band is powder treated on the one side for viewing the true image pattern therein and is powder treated on the other side as well for transferring the inverse image pattern therein to a permanent recording medium, thereby converting both sides to visible and true images. An alternative embodiment provides for a single twist in the band whereby it is first treated for viewing and then in accordance with the twist is recycled for purposes of generating permanent copy.
An applicator for uniformly applying magnetically responsive dry particulate material to broad areas on a web moved past the applicator to deposit the material in pattern areas attracting the material thereto. The applicator comprises an applicating roller having a plurality of magnetic members arranged about a shaft within a rotatable nonmagnetic sleeve to provide a magnetic field around the roller having a feed zone with a radial field changing to a tangential field, an applicating zone with a stronger radial field following the feed zone and a return zone extending from the applicating zone to the feed zone and having a stronger tangential field immediately following the applicating zone. A scavenging roller has a plurality of magnetic members arranged about a rotatable shaft within a nonmagnetic sleeve to carry any free particulate material applied by the applicating roller away from the web surface and back to a tray.
A terminal is provided for recording fixed and variable transaction data in both human and machine readable form from a credit card having an encoded magnetic stripe or track and embossed identification data and from settable means having an encoded magnetic portion and an embossed portion for keying in the variable transaction data. The magnetic copy stripe or track on a record form is held in contact with the magnetic stripe on the credit card and the encoded portions of the settable means. The remainder of the form is placed over the embossures on the settable means and on the credit card. A transfer magnet head and a pressure roller are moved along the form to transfer the magnetic information to the magnetic stripe on the record form and to imprint the embossed information on the remainder of the record form. The transfer encoded ticket thus prepared is compatible with a direct recorded ticket.
An image transfer recording apparatus in which a recording drum on which an information signal is recorded by electrostatic recording means is provided with a surface layer of electrically insulating resin so that a powdery developer attaching to the electrostatic latent image formed on the surface of the recording drum can be completely transferred onto a recording sheet thereby to obtain a recorded image of good resolution.
A magnetically encoded document including a broad stratum containing magnetically hard material which is magnetized to represent encoded data as a plurality of disparate magnetized regions of various polarity alignments defining a fixed two-dimensional pattern in the document, wherein upon at least one broad surface of the stratum each magnetized region has magnetized sections of opposite polarities having a narrow boundary therebetween, wherein the angles to which the boundaries extend breadthwise in the stratum of the document represent encoded data, with any given angle being unique to certain data. The document may be magnetically encoded by contacting the document with a pair of oppositely magnetized pole piece faces of a magnetizer key, which magnetizer key includes a tapered permanent magnet and two pole pieces disposed on opposite polarity sides of the permanent magnet, with the pole piece faces being separated by a narrow gap adjacent the narrow end of the permanent magnet.
A fuse for an explosive projectile comprises a forward primer and a rearward detonator that is exploded by the primer and that communicates with the primer through a firing passageway. The detonator and a valve that closes the passageway are mounted as an assembly for conjoint sliding movement from a forward position in which the detonator is outside the explosive charge of the projectile, to a rearward position in which the detonator is disposed within that explosive charge, under the influence of the inertia of the assembly when the projectile is launched and is accelerating. Thereafter, the deceleration of the projectile opens the valve, so that the projectile is armed only after it is well away from the launching site.
1. An improved arming mechanism for use in a missile comprising: a nose  mer affixed to a cylindrical housing member, a spring loaded striker slidably mounted in said nose member, the first end of said striker protruding from the outermost surface of said nose member, the second end of said striker extending into said housing, a battery positioned in that end of said cylindrical housing member adjacent said nose member, a switch positioned between said second end of said striker and said battery and affixed to one end of said battery, said switch being so arranged as to be contacted and closed by said second end of said striker when said first end of said striker is pressed against said spring, a booster charge in the opposite end of said housing, a barrier adjacent the booster charge, a flash port in said barrier, an arming rotor having an arm extending therefrom, said rotor positioned intermediate said barrier and said battery, a detonator in said arm provided with leads connecting it to a pair of contacts on one surface of said arm, a pair of contacts connected to said switch, the pair of contacts on the arm surface being in circular alignment with the pair of switch contacts, a spiral bimetallic heat-responsive member having one end anchored to said battery and the other end anchored to said rotor, said spiral member unwinding in response to heat and causing said rotor to rotate, the rotation of said rotor arming said fuze by aligning said detonator with said flash port and pressing the pair of contacts on said arm into engagement with the switch contacts, said spiral member winding upon subsequent cooling and causing rotation of said rotor back to the position where the detonator is out of alignment with said flash port, said fuze thereby being disarmed.
Disclosed herein is a recreational facility which allows users to slide down snow-free slopes. The new facility may be installed at ski slopes or the like for year long usage.
An amusement arrangement includes an inclined slide and a fluid supplymeans to supply lubricating fluid upon the slide. A sled is fabricated ofa lighter material than the lubricating fluid and is adapted to ride inthe slide. Brake means are provided to coact between the sled and theslide to control the sliding speed of sled on the slide by selectivefrictional contact therewith.
An Arctic Transport system which consists of a monorail track, supported by pylons at relatively short intervals, and a conveyor chain riding on the track. The conveyor chain consists of self propelled trolleys travelling at constant speed over a course with a direction reversing element at each end. Load units are accelerated by automatic means and attached to these trolleys at definite insert stations. These loads are removed at specific exit stations as controlled by automated signals and brought to stop or to any other transport system by automated controls. The load units are charged with materials to be transported at loading stations by automated loading mechanisms, preferrably with turnstile arrangements. These units are subsequently inserted into the transport chain and attached to trolleys by automated logistic mechanism.
A transportation system is disclosed having a plurality of support columns spatially disposed from each other and anchored to a supporting medium with a plurality of first transverse members, each of which is secured to one of a plurality of support columns and with a plurality of second transverse members secured to certain of the support columns adjacent each other defining a smooth vertical curve varying from the first transverse members and further including a first and second pair of rails adapted to support a load-bearing vehicle secured to the first and second transverse members respectively, and wherein the load-bearing vehicle has an upper and lower set of retractable wheels adapted to cooperatively engage the first and second pair of rails in operable relationship without switching any of the rails to facilitate changing the path of movement of the vehicle.
A system for transporting passengers and freight through areas of high-density traffic including loading and unloading stations at street or other convenient approach level, the transporting means moving basically on a main line level displaced from the station level, together with spur means for connecting the two levels for high-speed switching of the transportation means between the levels; and improved propulsion means for the transport system.
A plurality of small, individual car units are provided, each measuring about 2-3 meters (7-10 feet) in length and 2-3 meters (7-10 feet) in width. A single drive wheel is mounted at each side of the car unit, so that the unit will be suspended between a pair of rails, the center of gravity being at, or below the suspension or surface. Adjacent car units are interconnected by weight-bearing couplings which keep adjacent car units from tipping about the single support wheels. These interconnections may be pins, interfitting truncated cones, spherical sections or the like, permitting relative movement of the car units.
A conveyor system comprising a track and a row of transporter elements movable along this track and guided by it, each of these movable transporter elements comprising means of guidance with respect to the track and a device permitting a detachable connection with an object to be transported. Each transporter element is mounted to slide along the track, it comprises means cooperating with other means carried by the track to ensure the support by relative attraction to the latter. The device for detachable connection between the transporter element and the object comprises means ensuring a mutual attraction between them.
Between two successive article handling machines there is positioned an article transfer conveyor assembly which includes, in succession, a receiving portion, a transfer portion and a discharge portion. Receptacles, guided by a track, travel through the three portions. The receiving and the discharge portions have conveyor devices to effect a forced synchronized transport of the receptacles, while the transfer portion includes a conveyor mechanism which permits an accummulation of the receptacles thereon. The operations of the conveyor devices of the receiving and discharge portions are controlled by the respective article handling machine which adjoins the receiving or the discharge portion.
A suspended vehicle support system has a carrying cable fixed on pylons. The cable has hangers along its length carrying a track. The track is made up of two tubular guides disposed in the same vertical plane. G-shaped brackets are fixed on the guides and fastened to the hangers. The track between pylons forms with the cable and hangers a catenary suspension with rigidity girders resisting lateral movement of the suspended vehicle and substantially eliminating sensitivity of the carrying cable to violent winds.
A semi-automatic switch mechanism particularly for monorail type trolley conveyor tracks which is characterized by extreme simplicity of construction and operation. The switch takes advantage of the operation of a spring-loaded toggle linkage and a pivoted shifter member struck by a trolley for shifting a flexible switching track section into alignment selectively with either of two angularly disposed track sections, such as a main track section and a branch section.
A pallet for conveying parts through a succession of work stations. The primary support for the pallet comprises a pair of vertically aligned tubular rails. The pallet is supported on these rails by a pair of upper rollers mounted on said pallet and riding on the upper rail and a pair of lower rollers mounted on said pallet and riding on the lower rail along with a third pair of intermediate or clamping rollers, shiftably mounted on said pallet, which cooperates with the upper rollers to clamp the pallet to the upper rail. In this manner the pallet is cantilevered from the top rail. The first mentioned rails are disposed in a continuous path. Each work station is mounted to one side of said path. For each work station there is a side pair of vertically aligned rails extending closely adjacent to and parallel to said first mentioned rails a relatively short distance, then leaving said first mentioned rails to lead to a said work station, and then extending back to said first mentioned rails wherein said side pair of rails is again closely adjacent to and parallel to said first mentioned rails a relatively short distance. Said pallet has mounted thereon a second pair of upper rollers, and a second pair of lower rollers, disposed to engage said side pair of rails when the pallet is brought to that position wherein the side pair of rails is parallel to said first mentioned rails. At this last mentioned point means are actuated to disengage said third pair of rollers from clamping engagement with said first mentioned upper rail while immediately causing a similar pair of clamping rollers to engage the upper of said side pair of rails whereby said pallet is then cantilevered from said side pair of rails by virtue of said second pair of upper rollers, said similar pair of clamping rollers and said second pair of lower rollers.
A magnetic levitation guidance system having a predetermined arrangement and positioning of the magnets or current carrying conductors in the levitated vehicle in relation to the fixed guideway conductors. In one version of the invention the parallel, longitudinal vehicle magnets or current carrying conductors are positioned such that when the vehicle is positioned above a continuous conducting strip guideway positioned on the trackbed, these magnet edges or current carrying conductors are positioned outward in the horizontal sense of the edges of the conducting strip. In another version where the guideway is the form of loops or ladder shaped arrangements, the parallel, longitudal portions of the magnet edges or current loops on the vehicle are positioned when the vehicle is centered over the guideways such that these magnet edges or current carrying conductors are placed outwardly or inwardly of the co-acting conductors in the guideway. It has been found that if the magnet edges or current carrying conductors are positioned in this manner, there will be an inherent lateral restoring force that will tend to center the vehicle in relation to the guideway.
An improved magnetic suspension system suitable for vehicles wherein a propelled magnet is both levitated and guided by repulsion from eddy currents that are induced in a nonferromagnetic and continuous conductor.
A linear induction motor has a polyphase energizing winding formed of groups of generally flat bobbin-type windings arranged in two or more winding layers, the windings in each winding layer being generally coplanar with one another. Each winding group is formed of two or more of the windings one within the other. In each group the innermost winding encompasses one or more teeth of the primary member magnetic material, the next winding encompasses that tooth together with at least one of the adjacent teeth, and so on.
Superconducting high speed train system comprising a rail including at least one elongated hard superconducting member disposed horizontally along the running direction of the train and having a hollow or gap portion extending in the elongated direction, and a train body including a superconducting magnet for generating a magnetic field perpendicular to the hard superconducting member, thereby floating the body from the rail by the magnetic force acting between the superconducting magnet and the hard superconducting member.
A linear motor uses the same magnetic flux for suspension and propulsion of a high speed tracked vehicle and operates below a support rail without physical contact therewith. Displacement and inertial sensors carried by the vehicle sense the length of the motor-to-rail gap and any acceleration of the vehicle causing changes in the gap.A non-linear feedback circuit responds to the sensor signals and controls the voltage applied to the phased windings of the motor to maintain the selected gap. The feedback circuit provides uniform stability and dynamic response over a wide range of gap, maintains the selected gap substantially constant notwithstanding track irregularities and variations in vehicle loading, and gradually corrects for unevenness.The inertial sensor is made to be sensitive to vertical acceleration of the vehicle and insensitive to irregularities of the rail thereby assuring a "smooth" or "easy" ride notwithstanding irregularities of the rail.The frequency of the applied voltage is varied upwards from zero to adjust the linear speed of the motor, and the voltage is increased with the frequency to compensate for the increase in inductive reactance of the windings.A wide dynamic range of motor control voltage is provided to cover the propulsion range from standstill to high speed without requiring a wide dynamic range in the feedback control elements.
A vehicle steering mechanism which includes separate transversely movable steering members linked to each pair of wheels of the vehicle for individually turning the pairs of wheels about substantially vertical axes in accordance with the transverse movements of the steering members relative to the vehicle. A motion translating device usable in a linkage of a steering mechanism connecting a steering member to its associated pair of wheels which is selectively adjustable to cause the pair of wheels to turn in either selected one of two opposite directions upon transverse movement of the steering member in a given direction relative to the vehicle to provide for proper steering of the vehicle regardless of which end of the vehicle is the front end in the direction of movement of the vehicle.
Guidance systems including at least one detector mounted on a vehicle and a guide rail along the path to be travelled by the vehicle. Each detector is forced to remain in contact with the rail. A throw-off-center between the vehicle and the guide rail is sensed by the detectors which cause guiding wheels on the vehicle to turn in a direction to reduce the throw-off center.
A system for bringing runaway powered trains to a stop at the end of an outlying and terminal station comprises several hundred feet of dead rail spur track extending from powered track and electrically insulated therefrom and inclining gradually in elevation with distance from the powered track. A dead split skid track extends alongside and is spaced from and parallel to the dead spur track and inclines at a greater angle of inclination than the spur track. The greater angle of inclination of the dead split skid track reaches a maximum height of one inch above the dead spur track and maintains this one inch parallel to the gradual incline of the dead spur track for four or five hundred remaining feet of the dead spur track. The dead split skid track comprises a pair of spaced parallel rails and springs between the spaced rails biasing the rails away from each other. A plurality of skid blocks are mounted on each car of the train and on the locomotive itself, if possible. Each skid block comprises a substantially U-shaped integral member having a pair of spaced parallel legs and a joining bridge forming inner surfaces thereof and having brake lining material thereon and moving into contact with the rails of the split skid track when the train rolls on the spur track.
A suspension arrangement for electric motor-driven traction vehicles wherein the electric motor is totally supported by resilient connections to a gear housing unit which is bearing-mounted to the axle and resiliently connected by a single mount to the vehicle truck frame. Torque is transmitted from the motor armature to the parallel axle through a gear train having rigid connection to the axle and flexible connection to the motor armature. Relative motions are thus permitted between the axle and the truck frame without imparting harmful shocks to the electric drive motor.
A unitized palletized assembly is disclosed which comprises:A. a plurality of spaced, rigid parallelepipedonal elements;B. a thin plate or platform resting upon the parallelepipedonal elements;C. one or more nonrigid elementary loads to be palletized resting upon the thin plate or platform; andD. a shrunken film completely surrounding the non-rigid elementary loads and parallelepipedonal elements leaving one or more spaces between the parallelepipedonal elements and providing a unitized assembly.In addition, a method for constructing the above-palletized assembly is disclosed which comprises:A. disposing a plurality of rigid parallelepipedonal elements upon a first shrinkable film, the film rising between the parallelpipedonal elements so as to define parallel tunnels between the parallelepipedonal elements;B. disposing a thin plate or platform upon the parallelepipedonal elements;C. placing the nonrigid elementary loads to be palletized upon the thin plate or platform;D. disposing a second shrinkable film upon the non-rigid elementary loads to join the first shrinkable film and form a single shrinkable film completely surrounding the non-rigid elementary loads and parallelepipedonal elements; andE. shrinking the film completely surrounding the non-rigid elementary loads and parallelepipedonal elements to provide a unitized assembly.
A pallet load of product is secured onto a pallet by forming a sleeve of heat shrinkable film around the pallet load with its open top extending above the pallet load and its open bottom extending below the platform of the pallet. An auxiliary web of relatively high shrink energy film is secured to the sleeve diametrically above the load, and an additional auxiliary web of relatively high shrink energy film is secured to the sleeve diametrically below the platform.
A hermetically sealed shipping container particularly suitable for shipping hazardous liquids is formed by placing the liquid containers on a tray, wrapping the tube and containers in a longitudinally sealed tube of monoaxially oriented and heat-shrinkable film with the film extending beyond the ends of the tray, shrinking the film tightly around the containers and tray, and thereafter applying clips to the shrunken tube openings at either end of the package to seal the package. The resulting package holds the containers securely in place, is impervious to liquids, and is resistent to acids, bleaches, or the like.
For lifting storage receptacles, a support base for the storage receptacle is provided on each of its side walls with openings through which a lifting member can be inserted. Further, a guide member is located within the support base for guiding the lifting member into position. Another opening is also formed in the support base to receive a securing rod which prevents drawers, shelves and the like from being displaced as the support base and storage receptacle are lifted.
An industrial pallet having a plurality of parallel spaced channel members which transversely mount a number of parallel hollow spaced slats between respective upper and lower sides of the channel members. The channel members include plates at spaced intervals therein for rigidifying the channels. The slats are corrugated for increasing the structural strength of the pallet. A second embodiment provides overhanging slats including rigidifying bars therein for permitting straddle lifting of the pallet.
A four-way entry pallet of a construction enabling it to be made of molded plastic material to provide lightness without sacrifice of strength, comprises top and bottom walls, two pairs of opposite sidewalls having openings for receiving tines of a lift fork, reinforcing connecting columns between the top and bottom walls, and openings in the top and bottom walls, providing lightness. The top wall comprises T-shaped reinforcing ribs which provide strength and rigidity. Some of the openings in the bottom wall are enlarged to accommodate supporting wheels on tines of a lift fork, and have opposite bevelled edges providing ramps for such wheels; and lower edges of openings in the sidewalls are also bevelled to provide such ramps.
A pallet is provided for supporting loads thereon. The pallet includes an upper member formed of thermoplastic material for receiving loads thereon, a plurality of rows of supporting elements for supporting said upper member in an elevated position to permit the entry of lifting forks thereunder, and a reinforcing member positioned between the supporting elements and the upper sheet to bridge a load positioned on the upper sheet between the respective supporting elements. The reinforcing member has spaced apart upper and lower portions which are interconnected together to permit the reinforcing member to function as a flexural member.
A nestable library carrel in which two side walls are disposed at an angle with respect to each other and are supported by three elongated legs, one of the legs being positioned at the juncture between the side walls and the other legs supporting the side walls at points spaced from the one leg. The carrel is constructed to be nested in a square cluster wherein a central leg supports the junctures of all carrels and other legs are provided, each of which supports adjacent side walls of adjacent carrels. The carrel also is constructed to be arranged in a row configuration of two series of carrels oppositely facing and offset to provide adjacent side walls of oppositely facing carrels in abutting relationship. In row configuration the number of legs required to support the carrels is two more than the number of carrels in the row.
A device and modifications thereof are disclosed to provide forconverging the perception of two individuals engaged in a pairedinteractive, instructional program. The perception convergence deviceblocks external, non-programmed stimuli from the learner pair and focusestheir combined perception on each other and on a program comprised ofpredetermined learning stimuli so that the learning stimuli and learnerresponses can be fully specified in order to facilitate mutuallyinteractive paired learning. The device comprises barrier members andpositioning means for each learner of said learner pair arranged in amanner to accomplish this purpose.
A study carrel including a horizontal work surface with a hollow core unit projecting upwardly from the work surface and a plurality of vertical side panels extending outwardly from the peripheral surface of the core member toward the peripheral edge of the work surface to define a plurality of work stations. Each of the work stations is enclosed by an adjacent pair of side panel surfaces, the portion of the outer surface of the core unit that extends between the adjacent pair of side panel surfaces, and the corresponding portion of the horizontal work surface that extends between the adjacent pair of side panel surfaces.
A lazy susan or other multiple shelf device constructed for easy assembly and disassembly has an upper shelf supported above a lower one by rigid posts, each with a reduced extension at each end terminating in a cross key. The upper shelf has a slot-like opening through which the key at the top of the post is inserted, and the lower shelf a similar opening through which the key of the bottom of the post is inserted. When the post is then rotated the key at the top rides up an incline and the key at the bottom rides down an incline until both keys come to rest, and when all supports are in place the shelves are drawn tight against a shoulder on the post at the base of the reduced extension. For a lazy susan the lower shelf and a supporting base on which it rotates are pivotally connected with balls confined between them to provide a ball bearing support for the shelf on the base, the base and the lower shelf forming a single unit for packaging and storing.
A sunbather's recreational device in which a platform is mounted for rotation on a base. The platform is provided with a gnomon or style, the position or length of its shadow upon the platform serving as an indicator or reference of the position of the sun with relation to the sunbather, so that when required, the platform may be rotated to position the sunbather in the desired path of the sunrays.
A quarter turn fastener assembly for joining two members in assembled relationship in which one of the members rotatably supports a hollow shaft having a head on one side thereof and having diametrically oppositely located, axially extended wall slots which receive a cross pin at the other side of the member for sliding movement in the direction of the axis of the shaft. Adjustable means limits movement of the cross pin in a direction away from the head to adjust the force with which the two members are drawn together when the fastener is operated. The side of the other member remote from the first member carries a receptacle having a central opening and diametrically oppositely extending slots and having generally circularly arranged cam tracks leading to level portions onto which the cross pin rides behind resilient locking detents in response to rotation of the shaft.
Adjustable knockdown shelving including four metal angle corner posts formed at an angle of substantially 90.degree. and a rectangular shelf which has a plurality of solid triangular shaped metal nuts staked in each of the corners. A plurality of holes are located at the vertex of each of the posts and are in a spaced relation to one another along the length thereof. A bolt extends through a washer having a V-shaped groove which is matingly positioned to the corner of the post and is threaded into the solid nut to join the shelf to the post.
A portable security container generally configured as a clothes hanger and having a vise-type locking mechanism for securing such container to a closet rod or other permanently installed fixture on a premise or location, is disclosed. The configuration of the container permits its use as a clothes hanger and thereby facilitates covering of the container to somewhat camouflage its presence. The vise-like locking mechanism is restricted to being operated or otherwise manipulated from within the container so as to protect against easy removal of the container from the closet rod to which it may be secured. An electronic alarm is positioned within the container to sound or trigger an alarm should the container be tampered with or burgled.
The invention relates to a furnace for incinerating solid and liquid waste, the furnace having means for preheating the furnace chamber and for supplying heat in addition to that produced by combusting the waste. According to the invention, the furnace chamber is divided in two compartments by a divisional wall not substantially inhibiting heat transmission, one compartment to receive liquid waste, and the other to receive solid waste, each compartment having separate means for supplying air for the combustion.
Process for achieving complete and relatively inexpensive combustion of solid, semiliquid, and liquid combustible waste materials, and combinations thereof, having low heat value, by incompletely burning a combination of such materials in a first furnace to produce a combustible gaseous exhaust stream, achieving complete combustion in a second furnace of combustible high heat value waste materials to produce a noncombustible gaseous stream, intimately admixing the two streams in an unfired afterburner, without the addition of heat from an auxiliary heat source, while maintaining a minimum admixture temperature above the temperature required for autoignition of the combustibles in the first stream, whereby the heat produced by combustion of the high heat value waste materials is utilized for the spontaneous ignition and complete combustion of the incompletely burned materials. Liquid wastes of high heat value and of low heat value are separately stored, and are variously blended for feed to the first furnace and the second furnace in accordance with the heat requirements of the system to achieve complete combustion of all wastes being burned. The apparatus particularly adapted to perform the process comprises a pair of furnaces, a refractory-lined afterburner chamber having no auxiliary heat source, duct means interconnecting said afterburner chamber and each of said furnaces, and exhaust means defined by said afterburner for permitting exhaust of the burned gas stream after combustion is completed. The apparatus preferably includes appropriate draft handling, gas cooling, and particle removal means to render the gaseous atmospheric discharge relatively pollution-free.
A waste incinerator for burning a variety of sludges, liquids and solid materials that can be reduced to a combustible liquid by exposure to heat. Such materials are fed into an incinerator and fall onto the uppermost of several superposed perforate beds. As the waste material is exposed to heat it becomes less viscous and slowly drips through the perforations of each bed to a subjacent bed where it is exposed to additional heat and ultimately gasified and burned.
A low-pollution trash incinerator with a superimposed flue, secondary chamber, and primary chamber in generally vertically extending coaxial relation. Each chamber has a burner unit therein and a blower supplies atmospheric air to the primary chamber to support the combustion of waste material therein. In one form of the incinerator a portion of the products of combustion in the secondary chamber are recirculated through the chambers of the incinerator.
A method of and apparatus for incinerating a wide range of solid waste materials in a smokeless, odorless manner, Solid wastes are contained within a combustion chamber in a whirling, driving, vortical, rotating envelope of air that is present in an excess of that theoretically required to burn the waste. A combustible fuel is burned within the chamber. The particulates resulting from the combustion of the waste materials are suspended within the resulting burning cyclone of air and fuel, burned, and the effluent vented from the combustion chamber. Preferably, an afterburner is used to burn any lighter weight particulate matter that may escape from the combustion chamber.
An incinerator including primary and secondary combustion chambers and at least one transistion passageway interconnecting the same. At least one primary and at least one secondary burner are utilized in the respective chambers. The secondary burner is tangentially fired with an aspirating action. Exit air is admitted through ports provided at the base of the stack to facilitate turbulence in a direction opposite to the direction of the tangentially fired secondary burner. Primary and overfire air are provided in the main combustion chamber. Secondary air is introduced in the transition passageway. The exit air is introduced immediately above the secondary chamber at the base of the stack. The temperature in the primary chamber is preferably at least 1,100.degree.  F. and the temperature in the secondary chamber is preferably at least 1,400.degree. F.
An incinerator having a pressurized combustion chamber operable to effect a maximum combustion of material introduced therein with a minimum of by-products of combustion being exhausted therefrom. The incinerator includes a pressurized flame means directed across a flue entrance opening whereby the pressurized flame means produces a restrictive air block of the flue opening thereby increasing pressure within the combustion chamber.
Combustible materials are burned within a primary combustion chamber in a controlled atmosphere consisting primarily of a large proportion of carbon dioxide and a smaller proportion of air. The controlled atmosphere is produced by afterburning the combustion gases from the primary burner in the presence of combustion air and then recirculating the hot afterburned gases mixed with controlled amounts of air back to the primary combustion chamber. By controlling the proportionate amounts of carbon dioxide and air in the mixture, the temperature and rate of burning in the primary chamber can be carefully regulated.
A system is provided for dependably and constantly producing electric power while, at the same time, disposing of garbage and refuse. The system utilizes a low grade fuel oil as a primary heat source and garbage and refuse as a secondary heat source, the two heat sources, or fuels, being fired in a cupola-type furnace wherein all organic matter is completely combusted and all inorganic matter is reduced to a molten state. The hot gases generated from the combustion of the two fuels are utilized as the heat energy to produce steam, which, in turn, provides the energy for producing electric power at a uniform and dependable rate.
An apparatus for loading other equipment, the apparatus receiving loose material and transferring the material to an area of discharge and then discharging the material to the other equipment transverse to the direction of transfer in the apparatus. The material may be compacted in the apparatus prior to its discharge. Preferably the loader apparatus is used to charge or load an incinerator with rubbish or waste material while the incinerator may be in operation without the danger of flashback through the apparatus. Additionally, by having the loader apparatus arranged to move the waste material in a longitudinal direction and then discharging the same transversely into the incinerator, the apparatus can be positioned closely adjacent to the incinerator thereby requiring less floor space.
The apparatus comprises an integration of structural elements to provide adjacent first and second zones for the destruction of refuse. The first zone is a heat generating zone in which fuel burning heating means are employed to heat a mass of material disposed therein thereby providing a high temperature environment for a second zone communicating therewith. The second zone is an incineration zone for soft refuse such as paper. Materials which do not readily combust fall to the heated mass of material and melt or are otherwise consumed and absorbed. The residue discharges from the incinerator intermittently either as a gas or in molten form by way of removal spouts located in the vicinity of the first zone.
Method and apparatus for the treatment of refuse. The refuse is heated to a sufficiently high temperature to cause the refuse, even metal included therein, to melt. A molten bath is maintained in such a manner that the combustion products are caused to impinge upon the molten bath so that ash, soot, and other particles become entrained in the bath. The heat resulting from the combustion is used to maintain the bath in a molten state.
Partially dried slurry containing organic matter and ash-forming components are dried by means of the combustion heat generated in subsequent combustion of the dried slurry. The dried slurry is transferred in powder form into an incinerator wherein it is burned in suspended condition. The temperature of the incinerator is kept above the melting point of the ash formed therein. Where the melting point of the ash is high, it is lowered by the addition of salts of sodium or calcium prior to incineration. The incinerated ash in fused condition is separated from the hot combustion gases which then pass on to the dryer.
A novel process is disclosed for the concomitant incineration of solid refuse and of aqueous sewage sludge. The process utilizes thermal dewatering of the sludge prior to its incineration by means of heat resulting from the incineration of the solid refuse, the dried sludge then being added to the solid refuse and burnt together. Any malodorous gases or vapors produced are reconducted into the combustion chamber of the incinerator utilized whereby odorless operation is ensured. Various operational layouts for carrying out the novel process are also described herein.
A button sewing attachment incorporating a spring buffered arm which connects to the cam of a sewing machine to move a button clamp assembly from a first position to a second position to sew the forward button holes and the rearward button holes of a button retained in the clamp assembly. When the assembly is rotated through ninety degrees, the arm is engaged so that the button sewing stitches are employed as wrapping stitches for sewing a button post and the cam movement is absorbed by the spring buffer to prevent any movement of the button itself. The button clamp assembly includes an operating mechanism to position a button in a horizontal position for straight sewing and to rotate the button to a vertical position for receiving the wrapping stitches.
A sewing machine needle in which a threading slot extends lengthwise along the needle blade and opens into the needle eye. The slot is spaced transversely further from the needle center line than the adjacent wall portion of the eye below the terminus of the slot. The wall portion of the eye above the slot terminus merges with the inner wall of the slot at a location transversely further from the needle center line then is the eye wall portion below the terminus so that a transverse offset is provided.
A slide fastener presser foot has a guide member with a longitudinal guide channel therein for receiving interengaging elements of a slide fastener and movably mounted on a body, the body having a bottom surface for pressing the slide fastener and material together and the guide member having a bottom surface aligned with the bottom surface of the body in an operative position and spaced from the bottom surface of the body in an inoperative position.
A slide fastener presser foot assembly including a presser foot component having longitudinal guide channels for receiving the interengaging elements of a slide fastener to be sewn to material and having a top surface with laterally spaced bearing recesses therein, and a pivot mount component for slidably receiving a mounting shank adapted to be attached to a sewing machine presser bar assembly and carrying a pair of laterally spaced pivot bearings for engaging the bearing recesses in the presser foot component to pivotally mount the presser foot component on the pivot mount component.
An elongated cylindrical rod is supported on an upper portion of a presser foot component. The rod extends through a transverse bore in a connector block. The connector block includes one component of a joint between it and a mounting shank. The mounting shank is adapted for connection to the presser bar of a sewing machine.
The foot includes a pair of forwardly projecting support tines having coaxially openings therein for receiving and journaling short live axles at the opposite ends of a presser roller. One of the supports has a horizontally convex inner surface which intersects and forms a cleft with a surface portion of rounded end on the near axle. The roller is easily installed and removed by exerting a force on it causing the rounded end of the axle to slide along said curved support surface. A vertical channel is formed in the support surface immediately endwise of the roller. A thread from a needle positioned behind the roller may be brought forwardly over the roller, placed into said cleft and then moved downwardly and swung outwardly below the support, and then be moved rearwardly of the foot. The thread is cammed rearwardly through the cleft and into the channel and then out from the channel and around the rounded end of said axle into a position behind the roller.
A slide fastener presser foot is conventionally attached to a sewing machine presser bar assembly for sewing a slide fastener to a material, such as a garment fabric. A pair of guide channels recessed in the presser foot receives a stringer of the slide fastener and a projection on the front of the presser foot guides the stringer into one of the guide channels.
A method and apparatus for making a continuous joint between the longitudinal marginal edges of co-planar sheets wherein the sheets are advanced into the apparatus in co-planar relation with their adjacent margins overlapped. At a first station, both margins are bent down to provide a space between the sheets. At the next station, one margin is bent back so that at its edge a down-turned lip engages the down-turned margin of the other sheet. At a following station, the latter margin is wrapped about the lip to form an interlocked seam, and at a final station, the seam is flattened against the first margin. The apparatus includes pressing rollers above and below the plane of the sheets, the upper and lower rolls being coupled together at the first station in the space formed between the sheets.
This invention is a system of modular floating deck sections to provide additional deck space for a primary powered boat such as a houseboat or a cabin cruiser. The deck sections are removably hinged to the primary boat such that they can be towed by the boat during cruising, or detached for independent operation in the water when the primary boat is stopped at a selected location. In the transportation mode, the floating deck sections are winched aboard and carried by the primary boat. The modular floating deck sections are easily disassembled and stored in a small package when not in use.
The invention relates to a boat, especially to a pontoon-type boat, and is particularly characterized in that the deck of the boat is adjustable in the lateral direction between narrow and wide widths. The adjustment is accomplished by providing the deck with side sections, each of which can be moved from an inner position to an outer position and by providing leaf members to fill the gaps in the deck when the side sections are adjusted outwardly.
This invention relates to pontoon boats which normally carries a dingy for transporting the passengers to and from the pontoon boat. The stern end of the pontoon boat is provided with a novel structure for incapsulating a motor boat which provides the motive means to propel the pontoon boat. This invention combines the motor boat and pontoon boat to form an integral structure for purposes of propulsion of both crafts. Both crafts are separable when it is desired to use the motor boat as a tender craft.
This invention is directed to provide a novel sail arrangement comprising a main sail not secured to a central mast, and provided with means permitting the setting of this main sail in three directions, i.e., longitudinally, laterally and angularly in a horizontal plane. With these three specific adjustments, the coxswain can take due account of all the reactions produced by the sail on the vessel and control the head, the list, the nose-diving, or bow drop, and the speed of the vessel with a high degree of precision and without resorting to a rudder.
An anchor for marine vessels having an improved fluke which is removably coupled to the crown assembly by a longitudinal flange disposed along the fluke inside edge. The removeable flukes allow the shank pivot shaft to be removeably coupled through the crown wall adjacent the fluke flanges.
A band marking apparatus for cables includes an annular nozzle which is normally closed and is opened by the marking material under a predetermined pressure. A proportioning valve operated by the moving cable controls the material applied to the nozzle. The nozzle includes two spring-like plates which open under pressure. The valve may include a rotary sliding element providing a pressurized seal or a solenoid valve controlled by a commutator driven by the cable. The nozzle plates may also be held closed by electromagnetic force.
An icing depositor for depositing a layer of icing upon cookies and like food products moving along a conveyor. An endless belt conveyor is supported about the cookie conveyor with a horizontal lower run of the belt closely spaced above the first conveyor and driven in the same direction and at the same speed as the cookie conveyor. An open bottomed icing hopper is supported above the upper run of the belt to deposit a layer of icing of selected thickness upon the belt as it passes beneath the hopper opening. As the icing passes along the lower run of the belt it is pressed against and maintained in contact with cookies on the first conveyor. Unused icing, returned by the belt to the hopper, is scraped from the belt by a blade located in the hopper opening, the scraped icing passing into the hopper and becoming mixed with fresh icing.
An applicator for automatically applying a coating of butter, mayonnaise, or other relatively soft material on slices of bread which are carried in sequence by a conveyor belt under the applicator. The applicator includes a perforated applicator cylinder having an internal screw conveyor which distributes the coating material, supplied from a reservoir, along the external surface of the applicator cylinder. An adjustable doctor blade removes excess coating material from the applicator cylinder. The applicator cylinder turns in opposite direction to the movement of the bread so that the coating material is wiped from the surface of the applicator cylinder. The width of the perforated portion of the applicator cylinder is less than the width of the bread and the applicator cylinder is movable to and from the bread in timed relation to the movement of the bread so that the coating terminates short of the edges of the bread to form a coating free margin.
A machine for coating an object with a viscid semi-liquid material has a frame-mounted endless conveyor of discrete strips to move the object beneath a material dispenser from which the material falls in a sheet-like flow over the object, the conveyor and into a reservoir for recirculation to the dispenser. An object-tumbling mechanism operates beneath the dispenser to remove bubbles in the coating and encourages complete coverage of the object. The conveyor discharge end has tynes in rotatable arrays to lift the object from the conveyor and to wipe the conveyor strips.
A method of coating food parts such as chicken parts, shrimp or potatoes, by moving the parts continuously on a conveyor while dropping a flour breading mixture on one side and then causing the parts to turn over still continuously receiving the breading substance on the other side and recovering the breading substance which has not deposited on the food parts and returning it for reuse. The apparatus comprises a machine with an open mesh conveyor on it continuously driven through a coating pan which receives a liquid flour compound under pressure and into which the edible food parts are dipped as the conveyor moves therethrough and then beneath the breading hopper which is vibrated to gravity feed the bread crumbs onto one side of the coated food parts which are conveyed to a drop-off point at which the parts flip over thereafter passing beneath another breading outlet on the breading hopper receiving bread crumbs on the other side. A screw conveyor on the machine recovers the breading compound which falls unused through the mesh conveyor and returns it to the hopper for reuse. All of the pans and other parts of the machine are removable for cleaning and may be from stainless steel as are the other parts of the machine.
Coating machine having a vacuum chamber with at least one coating source disposed in the chamber. A plurality of spindle assemblies are mounted in the chamber with each of the spindle assemblies having a rotatable spindle. A substrate holder is carried by each spindle and is adapted to carry a substrate in such a manner that it is adapted to receive coating material from the coating source. Means is provided for rotating the spindle assemblies about the source. Means is also provided for rotating the spindles about their own axes at the same time they are being rotated about the source. Means is provided to permit adjustment of the spacing of the spindle assemblies from the center of rotation about the source. In addition, means is provided to permit adjustment of the angle of the spindle with respect to the coating source to thereby adjust the angle of incidence of the vapor coating stream with respect to the substrates carried by the spindles.
Optical-monitoring apparatus utilizing fiber optics for use with a chamber to monitor material being evaporated from a source having an aperture plate through which vapors being evaporated can be evaporated onto a substrate with fiber optic means for supplying light to the substrate and fiber optic means for receiving light reflected from the material deposited on the substrate.
An apparatus for forming a film of an amorphous semiconductor which contains at least one of the chalcogens sulfur, selenium, and tellurium and at least one of the Group IV A elements germanium and silicon. The Group IV A element is heated to a temperature sufficient to cause it to react with chalcogen vapors. A carrier gas passes over a first heated chalcogen source to provide a first gas mixture which passes over the surface of the Group IV A element to form a second gas mixture containing chalcogen vapors and vapors of the products of reaction of the first chalcogen and the Group IV A element. In a similar manner, vapors from other chalcogen sources and vapors from other sources of amorphous semiconductor components can be obtained by carrier gas streams. All of the vapors which are to form the film are mixed and transported over the surface of a substrate the temperature of which is maintained between 160.degree.C and 250.degree.C, which is sufficient to cause the formation of a continuous homogeneous film thereon. This method provides accurate composition control and composition variations throughout the film. A gas flow reversal technique provides accurate thickness control.
Method of precipitating layers of semiconducting or insulating material from a flowing reaction gas, upon heated semiconductor crystals, or for doping such crystals from a flowing dopant gas, wherein totally constant or only gradually changing operational conditions are maintained. The method is characterized by the fact that all working phases are so carried out with constant operational conditions. During one-half of the time required therefor, the reaction gas is transported approximately tangentially from one side over the semiconductor crystals to be processed. During the other half of the required period the reaction gas is transported approximately tangentially from the opposite side over the semiconductor crystals to be processed.
Method and apparatus for controlled doping of semiconductor crystals whereby a semiconductor crystal is enclosed in a housing and a floating melt zone is established along the length thereof while simultaneously controlled volumes of a gaseous doping substance is directed by a conduit to the melt zone for diffusion within the resolidified semiconductor crystals. The volume of doping substance supplied to the crystal is regulated by combination pressures and feed rates, such as by combination of at least two valves having a constant volume chamber therebetween and a program that adjusts the pressure of the dopant supply above the pressure surrounding the crystal melt zone and regulates the frequency of valve operations per unit time. The invention is especially useful for producing n-doped silicon crystals.
This invention relates to simplified apparatus for impregnating horizontally advancing corrugated paperboard containing a succession of transversely extending flutes. The apparatus includes a lower housing and an adjustable closure member defining a sealed chamber placed in communication with the paperboard flutes by flute sealing means including upper and lower sealing members engaged, respectively, with the upper and lower surfaces of the advancing paperboard. To adjust the pressure with which the sealing members contact the paperboard and to adjust the spacing between the sealing members, the upper and lower sealing members are connected directly with the closure member and housing, respectively, and the housing and closure members are adjustably spaced by a pair of adjustable spring devices connected therebetween. In accordance with a more specific feature of the subject invention, the sealing members each include a paperboard engaging surface which is curved when not in use but which becomes planar in configuration when in contact with an advancing paperboard surface due to the heating effect thereof.
Apparatus for impregnating longitudinally travelling corrugated board having transversely extending flutes, including suction means arranged adjacent one longitudinal edge of the board for establishing a vacuum in the flutes to draw a material, such as an impregnant, therethrough. The invention is characterized by the provision of retaining means for preventing undesirable lateral displacement of the board in the direction of the suction means. In the preferred embodiment, the retaining means comprise longitudinally extending endless belt means responsive to the vacuum established in the flutes for clamping the moving board against lateral displacement without crushing the flutes or causing damage to the board. Preferably the endless belt means are provided with longitudinal ribs that extend within corresponding grooves in the rollers upon which the belts are mounted, thereby preventing lateral movement of the belt means--and the board--relative to the rollers. In accordance with an important feature of the invention, flow control means are provided for accurately controlling the speed and/or extent of longitudinal penetration of the material through the flutes.
Apparatus for impregnating corrugated cardboard during the manufacturing process forming the said corrugated cardboard. A vacuum is formed within the corrugations of the cardboard and impregnating material is introduced into the corrugations under the influence of the said vacuum. The impregnating material is introduced under conditions which may be varied with respect to composition, temperature, viscosity and other variable process parameters. The apparatus of this invention includes a means for producing a suction on one edge of a corrugated cardboard while introducing impregnating material at the other edge of the corrugated cardboard as it passes through the impregnating apparatus.
A bundle of corrugated boards, having the fluted channels of the boards in substantially unidirectional alignment throughout the bundle are continuously advanced through an apparatus which comprises means for supporting the bundle, means for applying a compressive force against the outer surfaces of the bundle to maintain surfaces of adjoining boards in the bundle in tight abutment as the bundle advances, with at least a portion of the compression means forming the walls of a trough in the zone of impregnation with the bottom of the trough being defined by the upper surface of the bundle; the trough walls tightly abut against at least the upper portions of the outer surfaces of the bundle. Means are provided for delivering a liquid impregnating composition into the trough as the bundle advances through the trough. The trough communicates with the aligned fluted channels of the bundle. Since the individual members of the bundle are tightly compressed together, the impregnating liquid flows downwardly through the fluted channels of the boards without contacting the outer surfaces of the individual members of the bundle. When impregnation is completed, sequential means are provided for: first, circulating a gas through the fluted channels of the board bundle as it continuously advances to flush out excess impregnant; second, means for circulating a hot gas through the fluted channels of the bundle to drive off volatiles contained in the impregnating composition; third, circulating a second stream of the hot gas through the fluted channels of the dried bundle as it continuously advances to effectuate curing of the impregnant contained in the boards; and fourthly, delivering water into the fluted channels of the bundle as it continuously advances in order to humidify the boards.
An apparatus adapted for epitaxial growth from the liquid state. This apparatus has a furnace tube within which a substrate wafer to be processed and a solution containing a material to be epitaxially grown on the substrate wafer are isolated in cross section from each other before the epitaxial growth. With this arrangement, the constant-temperature zone necessary for the uniform heating of the substrate wafer and the solution can be shortened compared to conventional apparatus.
A long and large pipe is placed on a traveling truck with rollers which cause the pipe to revolve on its axis. A cantilever boom is inserted into the pipe, while the rear end of the boom is attached to a support and a spray gun is located at the front end of the boom which is made to rotate against the revolving direction of the pipe. Feeding means for paint are inserted in the boom to the spray gun.
An apparatus is disclosed for the epitaxial growth of semiconducting material by liquid phase epitaxy from at least two source solutions. A reaction chamber is designed of separable parts and can be suitably opened. Included within the reaction chamber are substrate wafers and the source solutions. The reaction chamber can be established within a furnace having temperature control means. It is capable of rotation about its axis which is a hollow tube. There are provided within the reaction chamber separating walls and baffles which form channels such that the substrate wafers are brought into contact by gravity with one of the source solutions at a time or are removed therefrom dependent on the rotation angle and on the number of completed revolutions of the reaction chamber.
A liquid phase crystal growth apparatus designed to permit simultaneous growth upon a plurality of substrates is described. The apparatus includes a container having a pair of compartments for containing a melt during various stages in the operation of the process, one of said compartments including means for holding the substrates. In the growth process, the container is rotated, thereby effectuating flow of the melt from one compartment to the other with the concurrent dropping of substrates upon the melt surface. Growth is then initiated by cooling a saturated melt.
A method of crystallizing a binary semiconductor compound from a liquid solution of the compound in one of its components, e.g. gallium arsenide in gallium. A small quantity of an element of the same group of the periodic system of the elements as that component, but having a larger atomic radius, e.g. indium, is added to the solution. The binary compound can be epitaxially deposited on the surface of a semiconductor body.Instead of gallium arsenide, indium arsenide may be crystallized using thallium as an addition. Moreover, a crystalline body can be obtained by drawing. The added component can be introduced in a vapor phase or through a porous wall. Crystallization may also take place by a zone melting process.
An apparatus for the liquid-phase epitaxial growth of multi-layer wafer comprising a refractory furnace tube, a boat placed in the furnace tube and having a plurality of bathes which are aligned in the longitudinal direction of the furnace tube and respectively carry solutions each containing semiconductive substances, and a holding member for holding a substrate which is arranged to succeedingly flood the substrate with the solutions so as to epitaxially grow a multi-layer wafer on the substrate. The holding member arranged to upset the substrate upon picking-up or separating of the substrate from the solution so that the solution remained on the substrate is dropped from the substrate whereby unwanted mixing of the solutions neighbouring each other can be avoided.
Apparatus for liquid phase exitaxy includes a refractory tubular vessel rotatable about it longitudinal axis and supportive of a substrate on an upper wall. A crucible is longitudinally movable from a position external to a confining wall of the vessel, whereby to be charged, to a position whereby to be sealed by said wall. Means rotate the vessel 180.degree. and effect further inward movement of the crucible whereby to effect contact between the substrate and growth material.
An apparatus and method for practicing liquid-phase epitaxial purification of semiconductor materials and for the preparation of semiconductor films or junction semiconductor devices employs a novel closed cylindrical graphite crucible element. The molten material to be deposited on a substrate is brought into contact with the substrate by simple rotation of the crucible about an axis of symmetry.
An elongated boat disposed in a furnace tube has a recessed portion to support a substrate, for liquid epitaxial growth thereon, and second and third recessed portions transversely spaced from and longitudinally spaced from, respectively, the substrate supporting recess and adapted to hold liquid materials. The boat is rotatable about an axis parallel to the tube axis and the tube is swingable on an axis normal to said tube axis whereby the materials may be sequentially applied to said substrate.
In an individual protective device for lobsters or similar crustaceans during their growth, a body, heavier than water, pierced with an elongated open cavity having a substantially elliptic cross-section the size of which gradually increases from the bottom of said cavity up to its opening, so that the young lobster or similar crustacean placed at the bottom of said cavity will be maintained in a natural position by said cavity and, during its successive casts of its shell, approach the opening.
Apparatus to facilitate rearing of the young of spawn-producing crustaceans, particularly crayfish, comprises a boxlike structure which includes an enclosure having a foraminous floor upon which one or more mother crayfish are supported and through which the young drop, after hatching, into a collection compartment which is also provided with a foraminous floor. The foraminous floor which supports the mother crayfish is constituted by a wire netting having a mesh size small enough to prevent passage of the mother crayfish but large enough to permit free passage of the newly hatched young into the underneath collection department, and the floor of the collection department is also a wire netting having a mesh size small enough to prevent escape of the young. The enclosure for confining the mother crayfish is provided with a cover also made from wire netting and through which food can be passed.
An indication of altitude variation about a preselected altitude is provided from a real time altitude information input signal in response to an altitude alert control signal which is proportional to a pair of complementary sinusoidal functions, sine and cosine, of the altitude variation. The uncorrected altitude information and the preselected altitude information are both fed to fine and coarse transolvers which each provide the sine and cosine functions of the angular equivalent of the altitude variation. The relative magnitudes of these sinusoidal functions are compared to provide the alert control signal. The fine cosine signal is phase demodulated with the coarse cosine signal as a reference and the relative magnitude thereof compared with the relative magnitude of the fine sine signal in order to provide both an inner and an outer alert control signal for a logic network. The relative magnitudes of the coarse sine and cosine signals are also compared to provide an arming signal for the logic network. The logic network is responsive to the alert control signals to control both an aural and a visual alarm.
A weaning pen particularly for calfs comprises at least two pen sections, opposite side walls, opposite front and rear walls, and a central partition forming the pen sections. The walls are formed of removable panels; and opposite side walls are pivotedly connected to a floor structure to enable the pen to be collapsed when certain panels are removed. A pair of detachable triangular skids supports the pen with the floor structure above the ground or floor; and the floor structure is foraminous, being desirably of expanded metal comfortable to the animal.
A power-and-process plant, preferably for producing sulfurous gas, comprising a cyclone furnace, an intermediate unit, and a waste-heat boiler which are disposed along the direction of gas movement, said intermediate unit on its side adjacent to the cyclone furnace comprising water-cooling tubes communicating with at least one section of convective tubes which are disposed within the intermediate unit near the convection surfaces of the waste-heat boiler, and besides, said intermediate unit being included in the water-flow circuit of the waste-head boiler and being enclosed in a split casing.
The steam generator is provided with a whirling combustion chamber capable of generating at least 10.sup.7 kcal./cubic meter hour ata. The whirling combustion chamber is connected directly to a combustion gas flue containing heating tubes or surfaces therein. The walls of the combustion chamber do not require cooling means as such are lined with ceramic oxide material.
The structural units are prefabricated to define the heating surfaces of the vapor generator. Each unit is formed of pipe panels disposed in parallel in a horizontal plane as well as wall parts which define a part of the sidewalls of the vapor generator. Some units have pipe ends which extend through the wall parts in gastight relation in order to connect to a header or manifold.
A compound rotary engine having a power unit comprising a two-lobed epitrochoidal housing with a three-apexed rotor therein, a compressor unit comprising a one-lobed epitrochoidal housing having a two-apexed rotor therein and feeding compressed gas to the power unit for further compression, and an expansion unit comprising a one-lobed epitrochoidal housing having a two-apexed rotor therein and receiving the partially expanded exhaust from the power unit for further expansion. The three units may be mounted on a common shaft, or may be on separate parallel shafts which are interconnected and turning at the same speed. The system may be operated either as a diesel system with a high over-all volume ratio and compression ignition, or at a lower compression ratio as a four-cycle with external ignition and either fuel injection or carburetor.
A stratified charge rotary internal combustion engine having a housing including opposed end walls in conjunction with a central peripheral wall defining a rotor cavity. A rotor having opposite side walls and a peripheral surface planetates upon an eccentric on an output shaft defining work chambers of varying volume and compressing a regular air-fuel mixture for combustion as it rotates within the cavity. Precombustion chambers are positioned at predetermined locations in one of the rotor side walls and sequentially periodically connect with an inlet port in the adjacent housing end wall. The inlet port is positioned in the engine cycle in constant contact with an inlet vacuum supplying a carbureted rich air-fuel mixture to the precombustion chambers. A throat passage in the rotor connects each chamber with a peripheral surface of the rotor. A spark plug mounted in the adjacent housing end wall ignites the rich air-fuel mixture as the precombustion chambers sequentially periodically align with a sparking port in the wall. The ignited rich mixture burns through the throat passage and ignites the compressed regular air-fuel mixture on the rotor periphery within the rotor cavity.
A rotary combustion engine having a rotor that planetates within a housing in a rotor cavity defined by a pair of oppositely facing side walls and an interior peripheral wall and working chambers that are defined by these walls and the rotor and rotate with the rotor while varying in volume is provided with a spark plug whose electrode is open to a spark access hole through one of the side walls wherein as the rotor planetates the working chambers are operatively periodically connected to this access hole and are prevented by seals on the rotor from providing connection between any of the chambers.
A rotary combustion engine having an intake arrangement providing a controlled peripheral variation in the air-fuel mixture in each working chamber to effect a trailing rich air-fuel region for ignition and a leading lean air-fuel region for continuing combustion.
Arrangement in a rotary piston engine of a main and an auxiliary combustion chamber communicating with each other and an air compressor connected to the auxiliary combustion chamber to serve the purpose of scavenging the latter. The arrangement gives an improved ignition characteristic while ensuring stable and economic engine operation forming clean exhaust gases.
A rotary fluid device with a rotor eccentrically mounted to rotate in a chamber having a plurality of movable vanes mounted on the rotor to slide in sealing contact with the interior wall of the chamber as the rotor rotates. The vanes are mounted in diametrically opposed pairs by means of radially extending support rods, which vanes protrude through slots in the rotor to engage the peripheral wall of the chamber. These rods act as tracks for the vanes to radially slide and offer a system of mutual structural support. In addition, two of the rotary fluid devices are combined to form a two stage rotary engine.
A rotary machine of the oscillating vane type including a shaft having a pair of vane assemblies rotatably mounted on the shaft and being driven for oscillating rotation relative to each other to provide intake, compression, expansion and exhaust cycles during each revolution. The vane assemblies have respective power transmitting plates secured thereto, each plate having a radially extending slot respectively receiving a drive pin secured to a power transmitting chain. The chain engages freely rotatable pinion gears and a power transmitting gear on a centrally located output shaft thereby providing a driving connection between the vanes and the shaft.
An injection valve control signal is generated having a pulse width which is a primary function of sensed intake vacuum, and a secondary function of sensed engine speed, engine temperature, and throttle opening.
A fuel supply control system for an internal combustion engine includes a trigger circuit which is switchable between first and second states. The application of fuel to the engine is permitted when the trigger circuit is in the first state and is prohibited when the trigger circuit is in the second state. An energizing voltage is produced in response to deceleration of the engine. The trigger circuit is responsive to the presence of the energizing voltage to normally switch to the first state in which a feedback signal is developed. A control signal is generated having an amplitude proportional to the speed of the engine so that the amplitude of the control signal is at a trigger level when the engine speed is at a reference magnitude. The trigger circuit is responsive to the absence of the feedback signal to switch to the second state when the amplitude of the control signal exceeds the trigger level. Further, the trigger circuit is responsive to the presence of the feedback signal to remain in the first state when the amplitude of the control signal exceeds the trigger level due to an increase in the speed of the engine produced by the application of fuel to the engine as the engine speed initially decreases below the reference magnitude during deceleration of the engine.
An electronic fuel injection control system for an internal combustion engine includes an acceleration compensation circuit for increasing the amount of fuel applied to the engine during acceleration. In the control system, control pulses are produced in response to the occurrence of trigger pulses. The trigger pulses are developed in synchronization with the operation of the engine. Fuel is applied to the engine at a constant rate for the duration of each of the control pulses. The duration of the control pulses is determined as a function of a bias voltage. During acceleration of the engine, the acceleration compensation circuit varies the bias voltage so as to increase the duration of the control pulses by a substantially constant amount during an initial time period and by a linearly decreasing amount during a subsequent time period. In addition, the acceleration compensation circuit develops an extra trigger pulse in response to the onset of acceleration. Further, the acceleration compensation circuit is completely insensitive to the contact bounce of a sensing switch which detects acceleration of the engine.
An engine control system includes first transducer means producing afirst digital signal representing a first variable parameter and secondtransducer means for producing a signal representing a second parameter.The first parameter changes in steps of X, and the second parameter insteps of Y. The two signals are fed to a memory store, which produces anoutput indicating the way in which the engine is to be controlled. Inorder to obtain better accuracy, at least the first digital signal isvaried, for a given value of the first variable parameter, by an amountno greater than X.
Apparatus for producing a trigger pulse at a preselected point which is off-set from a reference point in the movement of a cyclically moving mechanical device which includes a pulse generator adapted to be connected to the device which produces a series of pulses during each cycle of the device. A counter counts the pulses. A gate connects the pulse generator with the counter and control means enables the gate for a time period corresponding to the interval of time between movement of the mechanical device between the preselected and reference points. Trigger means is provided which increments the count in the counter to produce a trigger pulse after a desired count has been reached.A novel method of producing the trigger is also disclosed.
Apparatus for measuring a pressure, applicable notably to the specific case of a fluid volume output in a conduit, in which a pressure pick up having a very short response time translates the instantaneous pressure into the form of an electric signal amplified and transformed into a voltage fed to an electric integrator determining the means pressure. At least one pick up emits an electric signal during at least one fraction of the period for controlling the release of the integrator, its integration period and the resetting thereof.The apparatus is applicable inter alia to systems for injecting fuel into internal combustion engines.
A sequential fuel injection system for an internal combustion engine has a separate electrical channel for each injector, each channel including a binary electronic counter. All said counters receive pulses from a voltage controlled generator whose frequency is set by the fuel demand. Engine operated timing means cause the counters to operate sequentially. An injector may be put into operation while a preceding injector is still being actuated, thus affording longer periods of injector operation.
A two-cycle internal combustion engine wherein the cylinders have a plurality of input or transfer ports through one side of the cylinder wall and a plurality of exhaust ports through the diametrically opposite side wall. Each piston includes a baffle plate extending upwardly from the piston crown, generally curved outwardly from the input ports and located between the inlet ports and an imaginary transverse vertical plane bisecting the piston. The wall directs the fuel-air charges entering through the transfer ports toward each other to define a combined stream which rises to the top of the cylinder as the combusted gases move out through the exhaust ports on the opposite side. Auxiliary inlet channels in the interior of the cylinder wall communicate with apertures in the piston side wall so that a portion of the fuel-air mixture passes therethrough from the crankcase to the combustion chamber without going through the transfer ports.
The ignition system of an internal combustion engine includes electrical an igniting unit operative for igniting a fuel-air mixture in a cylinder of the engine. An ignition capacitor is operative for storing the electrical energy required by the igniting unit for effecting ignition of the mixture. An energy transfer arrangement is operative for causing the igniting unit to ignite the mixture by transferring to the igniting unit electrical energy stored in the ignition capacitor. An ignition-capacitor-charging arrangement is connected to the ignition capacitor and is operative for charging the latter. A timing arrangement times the transfer of energy from the ignition capacitor to the igniting unit. An engine-speed-limiting arrangement includes a speed-monitoring capacitor and a speed-dependent charging arrangement for charging the speed-monitoring capacitor by applying thereto substantially identical charging pulses having a pulse repetition frequency proportional to engine speed. A discharge arrangement connected to the speed-monitoring capacitor discharges the speed-monitoring capacitor at such a rate that the voltage across the speed-monitoring capacitor can build up to a predetermined value only if the engine speed reaches a predetermined speed. A voltage-responsive arrangement connected to the speed-monitoring capacitor is operative when the voltage across the speed-monitoring capacitor reaches said predetermined value for preventing the igniting unit from igniting the fuel-air mixture.
A capacitor discharge ignition system coupled to a source of electrical energy for discharging pulses of electrical energy into the transformer of a vehicle ignition system at a rate variable with engine speed. The capacitor discharge ignition system includes a revolution limiter which is responsive to the engine exceeding a predetermined speed for reducing the rate at which pulses of electrical energy are discharged into the transformer by the capacitor discharge system. With a reduced number of pulses being supplied to the transformer, the engine is rendered substantially incapable of exceeding the preselected speed.
A quick heat manifold having a vertical riser bore adapted to be connected to a carburetor for supplying air-fuel mixture to engine cylinders includes an improved heat exchanger including a thin sheet metal heat transfer plate of thermally conductive material closing an opening in the floor of the induction plenum of the manifold above an exhaust heat crossover passage. A plurality of corrugated fin segments define a plurality of separate exhaust flow passes in communication with the exhaust crossover passage for quickly heating the plate during a cold engine start phase of operation. A fuel retainer on the inlet face of the plate includes a plurality of deformed segments thereon defining a plurality of separate cells that prevent blow-off of fuel droplets impinged thereagainst. The retainer is bonded to the plate and is configured to allow the temperature increases of the plate so that fuel droplets impinged thereagainst will vaporize upon contact with the retainer or plate to prevent fuel droplet accumulation on the plate.
A rapid start fuel vaporizer for internal combustion engines employing a very rapid-acting heat exchanger that is heated either electrically or by exhaust gases or both to selectively vaporize the heavier fuel droplets which drop into the intake manifold from the engine carburetor without increasing intake air temperature. This vaporizer assembly is attached to the underside of the intake manifold directly below the downdraft carburetor and it is provided with a membrane of thin stainless steel or other material that resists oxidation caused by heating. A honeycomb, grid pattern, or closed convolutions between membrane and carburetor stagnates the intake air directly above the membrane, thus reducing heat transfer from the membrane surface to the intake air.
An early fuel evaporation intake manifold for an internal combustion engine includes a low thermal mass, thin metal gasket plate clamped between upper and lower manifold castings and having an integral heat exchanger forming the floor of the riser bore plenum. The gasket plate and a cored channel in the lower manifold casting define an exhaust crossover passage having a vertical run incident to the heat exchanger and flaring to a restrictive high aspect-ratio heat transfer duct coextensive with the heat exchanger. The exhaust gases are directed against the heat exchanger at the vertical run and accelerate through the restrictive duct to break up the stagnant fluid film at the heat exchanger for effecting rapid heating thereof to promote greater fuel vaporization during engine warmup.
In an internal combustion engine air intake control system in which a valve is actuated by a vacuum motor in response to engine intake vacuum so as to control an admixture of heated air with ambient air in an engine air intake passage, and in which the action of said intake vacuum on said motor is modified by a thermo-responsive air bleed valve which bleeds air into said motor at a rate which increases with intake air temperature, a thermo-responsive non-return valve is disposed in the bleed valve housing and is constructed and arranged so that, when the engine is cold the non-return valve is closed but permits fluid flow from said vacuum motor to said vacuum source but not in the opposite direction, but, when the engine has warmed up, opens and permits free communication in either direction between said vacuum motor and said vacuum source, this arrangement ensuring that sudden acceleration of the engine before it has warmed up will not result in a sudden surge of cold air being delivered to the engine.
An automatic temperature control device for intake air of an internal combustion engine comprises a control valve for adjusting the ratio of the amount of cool air and hot air each supplied into the interior of the intake pipe of the engine so as to control the temperature of intake air, and a negative pressure motor for operation of said control valve which negative pressure chamber is, on one hand, in conjunction with the interior of the intake pipe downstream of a throttle valve, and is, on the other hand, opened into the atmosphere through a temperature sensitive valve being operatable according to variation of the temperature of the engine or an adjacent point thereof. The air passage between the negative pressure chamber of the negative pressure motor and the interior of the intake pipe has an one-way valve and two invariable orifices on its way. The one-way valve permit air to pass through the air passage just from the negative pressure chamber of the negative pressure motor to the interior of the intake pipe, and one of the invariable orifices is interposed between the one way valve and the intake pipe, while the other makes the air passage between said one-way valve and said other invariable orifice open into the atmosphere.
An apparatus automatically sensing and regulating intake air temperatures for combustion engines equipped with a carburetor or with a propane gas fuel operated fuel injector. The temperature of the intake air entering the engine is sensed by a bimetallic valve element, which simultaneously operates a flapper valve by means of the engine intake vacuum. The flapper valve automatically proportions the amount of raw cold intake air and preheated intake air for optimum engine operation.
Improvement in a system for controlling fluid temperature comprising a member movable between positions in which the temperature is respectively increased and decreased, and an actuator linked to the member and mounted to communicate with the fluid to adjust the position of the member in accordance with temperature changes in the fluid, the improvement being in the actuator, which comprises a housing; a diaphragm mounted in the housing to define a control chamber therein, the diaphragm having a valving portion and having a piston portion linked to the member and mounted to reciprocate in the housing, to move the member between its positions, the housing having an opening on one side of the diaphragm for connection to a source of regulating pressure, the valving portion being adjacent the opening and movable between sealed and unsealed positions with respect thereto; and a temperature sensitive element mounted to apply force to the valving portion dependent upon the fluid temperature, so that the balance of forces on the valving portion, including force attributable to the regulating pressure, will determine the position of the valving portion, and, in turn, the pressure in the chamber and the positions of the piston portion and the member.
Temperature sensor for controlling air pressure in vacuum control line for thermally modulated air supply system in an automotive vehicle, featuring a temperature responsive element isolated from the atmosphere except through the control orifice and the air line in which pressure is being controlled; a free floating valve element supported against the control orifice from beneath by a bimetal strip, so that movement of the strip away from the orifice enlarges its effective opening; and a valved orifice-defining member adjustable toward and away from the bimetal strip for calibration.
A thermostatically controlled valve assembly suitable for use as an inlet air temperature control device of an automobile engine. A thermostat moves a pivotally mounted flap against a main spring as the temperature rises to increase the ratio of ambient air to heated air. In this invention the functions of the flap hinge, the main spring and an override spring are performed by a spring configuration formed from a single piece of spring stock.
A means for attaching a beehive-shaped body directly onto the circumference of a standard pulley and a recoil housing which is attached to an internal-combustion engine equipped with a recoil mechanism and a beehive-shaped body having a spiral groove therearound for accommodating a permanently attached hand-starting pull rope. The interior of the housing fits to the spiral land separating the turns of the spiral groove with a clearance which is substantially less than the thickness of the pull rope so that the pull rope does not wind upon itself.
A fire resistant warming device forming the hand grip portion of a fishing rod comprised of a perforated metal tube open at one end to snugly receive the fish pole and threaded at the butt end to receive a threaded metal cap, with heat limiting means of fiber glass on the exterior or the interior of the tube, or a cloth sleeve internally coated with fiber glass adapted for placement over the grip element, and a dry fuel element ovate in cross-section to prevent continuous rolling within the grip element.
A hood for use with a baking oven or the like having an exhaust vent in its upper surface which communicates with an interior of the hood, the hood having a faceplate, an upper vent above the faceplate and a lower vent below the faceplate, the oven flue products being enabled to enter the hood and mix with cool air which is drawn into the hood through the lower vent before passing out through the upper vent or through an exhaust fan.
A coffee brewing system providing a predetermined amount of water to a heating reservoir. Water at line pressure is connected to the inlet of a first water pressure regulator. The first pressure regulator acts as a buffer for the high pressure water line and drops the pressure level to a predetermined level. Water from the first regulator is then connected to a second regulator which provides a relatively constant water pressure output at a pressure level less than that of the first regulator. An actuating mechanism comprising a timer is used to open a valve and allow water from the output of the second water pressure regulator to flow into a heating reservoir. The water pressure output at the second pressure regulator is sufficiently constant so that for a fixed interval of time a predetermined amount of water flows through the valve into the reservoir. In addition, a water filled coil positioned in the heating reservoir provides a small amount of heated water when desired for brewing tea and the like.
A coffee making apparatus in which a single piece container, molded of plastic material having insulation properties, forms a control chamber and a water heating chamber sharing a common wall, the water heating chamber receiving near its bottom wall a heating coil having extensions projecting to the op of the wall or partition and folded thereover for connection to an electrical source. A thermostat element is conductively connected to the heating coil and provided with a connecting member also folded over the wall. The water heating chamber receives at its upper portion a reservoir member having a depending supply tube terminating adjacent the heating coil to deliver cold water, and a siphon is provided having an upper end located above the bottom of the reservoir and a lower end terminating in a spray head located under the bottom wall of the water heating chamber. The reservoir member is intended to be filled with cold water, which may be supplied manually or may be supplied through a valve from a water supply, the valve being controlled by water level sensors.
A filling apparatus for a drinking cup for a dental unit which enables the cup to be filled automatically with a desired predetermined amount of cold water by pressing a control button. Hot water may be mixed with the cold water to temper the cold water during the automatic filling by pressing a second hot water button and holding the same for the time necessary to add and mix the desired amount of hot water. Alternately, the hot water button may be pressed to discharge a desired amount of hot water only into the cup.
This invention relates generally to an incubator and more particularly to a comprehensive infant care system comprising an environmental chamber for the infant which chamber has a base and a transparent dome adapted to fit over the base. Means are provided for moving the dome relative to the base between a closed position in engagement with the base and a predetermined open limit position and for holding the dome at various positions between the open limit and closed positions. The chamber, including the dome and base, as well as the dome-moving means is mounted on a supporting structure and there is included means for tilting the entire chamber to a selected tilt position. The system further comprises a chassis portion within the supporting structure having internally wired compartments, modular electronic units adapted to plug into the compartments, and means for electrically connecting the modular units to the chassis wiring upon plugging the units into the compartments. Means are also provided for supplying infrared heat to the chamber.
Energy transmission apparatus for controlling neonate body temperature consisting of a support platform for infant support, a heat source in proximity to the platform, energy guides surrounding the platform which transmit and guide heat energy from the heat source to the platform, and a heat control for controlling changes of the heat source in accordance with body temperature changes of the neonate in order to maintain the body temperature constant.
An inert cornual plug designed to obstruct entry to the Fallopian tubes of an overall bullet configuration having a cone-shaped forward portion that cooperates with the uterine walls and a wire anchoring means extending from about the mid-portion of the plug to secure the plug in position by anchoring it to the cornual area of the uterus, and a technique for its insertion are described. The cornual plug is optionally provided with a pendant string or cord for removal of the device, thus, the device is useful for sterilization or contraception.
A rectal cone is disclosed which is used in postoperative treatment following a marked enlargement of the anal canal during the operative procedure and which presents a peripheral surface having critical characteristics of configuration and dimension for accomplishing physiological benefits and convalescence with minimum discomfort.
An occluding member, for being lodged in an oviduct where it narrows, e.g. at the junction between the ampulla and the isthmus, includes a tapered base portion and a narrowed forward portion. A suture attached to the occluding member is passed through an opening in the wall of the oviduct and is wrapped about the oviduct to occlude its walls against the forward portion of the occluding member. For inserting the occluding member, a separable rod passes the member through the inlet of the oviduct until it is lodged. Over the forward portion of the occluding member is temporarily positioned a suture guide, which holds the suture forward of the occluding member forward portion during positioning the occluding member and forms the opening in the wall of the oviduct. After the suture is drawn out of the oviduct through the opening in its wall, the suture guide is removed through the same opening in the oviduct wall.
An artificial urethral valve for implantation in the bladder or urethra of an incontinent person comprising a movable valve occluding means which is retained in the closed position by means of a spring that requires a relatively high opening force and then substantially collapses to allow the passage of bladder contents through the valve. The valve occluding member retaining spring requires a relatively high breakaway or opening force to open. Thereafter the normal outflow of bladder contents through the valve is sufficient to substantially keep the valve open. After the contents of the bladder have been voluntarily evacuated, the valve occluding member is automatically returned to the valve seat to again close the valve to a leakproof seal.
A device for insufflating a patient's body from a source of pressurized gas. The device includes a flexible gas reservoir having an inlet port, an outlet port, and means for indicating a preselected volume of gas in the reservoir. Means is provided for connecting the gas source to the inlet port of the reservoir for filling the reservoir with the preselected volume of gas from the gas source. The device has body penetrating means for introducing gas into the patient's body, and means for pumping a selected volume of gas from the outlet port of the filled reservoir through the penetrating means and into the body.
The inner end portion of an endotracheal tube is encircled by an inflatable cuff, to which is connected a tubule that extends toward the opposite end of the tube and is formed for connection to a source of air pressure. In communication with the tubule is an expandable chamber having an elastic wall. The chamber is expandable as long as air is forced into the tubule and is so formed that after it has expanded to a predetermined size, at which the air pressure therein is the same as the maximum air pressure desired in the cuff, additional air forced into the chamber will expand it further without substantially changing the pressure in the cuff.
A method and apparatus for automatic peritoneal dialysis which includes a series of steps for the exchange of dialysate which proportions the in-flow to the out-flow and provides for the elimination of any distressing in-flow or out-flow pressures on the patient and any abnormal build-up of fluid quantity in the patient. The apparatus includes a portable bed-side unit which carries the necessary pumps and valves for the automatic cycle and includes a disposable plastic sheet unit supported on the apparatus which is positioned such that pumps and valves in the apparatus can operate on this unit when in place.
A portable infusion system uses a disposable piston type syringe as a positive displacement pump. The syringe piston is reciprocally driven by a bidirectional DC motor under control of a battery powered circuit. Different selectable rates of pumping are maintained by controlling the width of bidirectional DC pulses coupled to the DC motor and by monitoring the motor back EMF during the off-time of the pulses. A disposable two-way valve connects the syringe pump with a fluid source and a catheter. Safety circuits protect against deleterious conditions such as the passage of an air bubble or an over-pressure condition.
An alveolar gas trap includes a small tubular reservoir having check valves at opposite ends and a mouthpiece so that when a person exhales through the mouthpiece, the exhalation gasses pass through the reservoir to the ambient with the last or alveolar gas being collected in the reservoir.
A pulse rate meter uses a photo optical monitoring system to obtain analog signals corresponding to the heartbeat of the patient. Suitable amplification and detection circuitry provide an audible tone corresponding to each pulse beat and a visual indication thereof as well as a digital read out of the pulse rate of the patient. Additionally, an auxillary input may provide the indication of the patient's pulse at a separate point from that at which the first pulse was taken. The invention also provides for digital readout of the time difference of pulse detections in the separate channels. Provision is also made for obtaining an electrocardiograph output.
The pulse analyzing apparatus disclosed herein includes a means for sensing the arterial pulse rate of a patient and generating an electrical signal in response to the presence of each pulse which is introduced to an indicating means via a circuit network comprising a driver, pulse shaper and low pass filter. Audible means are selectively coupled to the driver for producing a clicking sound indicating the pulse rate while meter circuitry is coupled to the low pass filter for providing a visual indication thereof. The pulse monitoring means is coupled to the indicator means at the output of the amplifier for rapidly providing evidence of pending circulatory disorder or failure in the form of visually displaying cardiac stroke/volume simultaneously with the display of pulse rate. Means are provided for measuring and displaying systolic blood pressure including switch means for selectively coupling the indicator across the low pass filter. This measuring means includes the use of a conventional occluding cuff.
This disclosure relates to a device for monitoring fetal heart beat and intrauterine pressure and correlating the same to determine fetal distress.The fetal heart rate monitor employs a photoelectric AGC circuit, a frequency selector producing a ringing output at the dominant frequency of the fetal EKG complex, digital counters to measure the interval between successive heart beats, a digital-to-analog converter and a two-channel recorder.The intrauterine pressure monitor features a liquid-filled tube connected to a bridge-type pressure transducer, an oscillator for supplying power to the bridge, a differential amplifier for sensing bridge unbalance and a rectifier connected to the amplifier, gated by a pulse from the oscillator and producing a voltage to be recorded on the second channel of the recorder.
In a heart rate monitor, two electrical inputs derived from ECG. electrodes and from an arterial pulse pickup are received by separate channels to produce respective electrical outputs, such as, variable DC voltages, corresponding to the intervals between successive QRS and arterial pulses, and hence to the rates of such pulses, deviations of such electrical outputs beyond adjustably preset limits of allowable ranges therefor are detected, and an alarm is actuated, as through a digital logic circuit and preferably to operate in synchronism with the QRS pulses, only in response to patient conditions represented by predetermined combinations of detected deviations of the electrical outputs outside the allowable ranges therefor. Further, suitable time delays are provided to cause actuation of the alarm soon after the occurrence of certain combinations of deviations, such as, no pulse and no ECG. or fibrillation (high ECG. rate and no pulse) and to delay the actuation of the alarm in the case of other deviations, such as, the combination of high ECG. or QRS and high arterial pulse rates.
A compact transistorized pulse detector comprising a strain gauge attached to a finger. The output signal is amplified an filtered to trigger a monostable multivibrator, which signal is then integrated to give a readout of the pulse rate on a meter. The pulse waveform is also visually displayed on a small, battery-powered CRT.
A pulse rate counter and display applicable for indicating pulse rate of the human body. A counter is advanced at a preset clock rate to measure the time duration between two consecutive pulse beats. Appropriate circuitry determines within which of a group of pulse rate ranges this measured time duration falls. The minimum time per pulse for the determined group is set into the counter and the counter decremented to zero at the preset clock rate. The maximum pulse rate of the group then is preset into the counter and the counter decremented at a selected rate corresponding to the approximate slope of the curve of pulse rate versus time per pulse for the determined group. Decrementing terminates upon occurrence of the third consecutive pulse beat, the contents of the counter then indicating the measured pulse rate.
Apparatus for determining heart rate based upon the occurrence of two consecutive heart beats and for immediately displaying the determined heart rate in beats per minute. A transducer responsive to the occurrence of a heart beat generates an electrical pulse indicative of such occurrence. The heart beat pulses are applied, together with a train of clock pulses, to a counter which counts the number of clock pulses occurring between consecutive heart beats. A fully decoded, static, read-only memory has stored therein the different pulse rates which correspond to the different numbers of clock pulses which may occur between consecutive heart beats. By applying the output of the counter to the memory, the pulse rate which corresponds to the counted number of clock pulses may be selected. Such selected pulse rate is applied to a display device which visually displays the pulse rate in beats per minute.
A body noise detector, includes a housing having a first chamber therein containing a microphone capsule and a second reduced-pressure chamber therein closed on one side by a resilient deformable wall, and connected to an annular groove surrounding a pad attached to the microphone capsule. The deformable wall is loaded by a spring against pressing into the reduced-pressure chamber. In one embodiment a lever carrying a pressure roller is pivoted on the housing so that the pressure roller can press upon the deformable wall.
A portable electrocardioscope is provided taking the form of a housing having a plurality of terminals at one end for direct engagement with the chest of a patient, a cathode ray tube display at its other end, and a battery-operated circuit within the housing for converting signals appearing on the terminals into a visual display on the cathode ray tube.
This disclosure relates to a cardioscope including a cathode-ray tube and method for displaying superimposed succeeding groups of electrocardiac complexes. To superimpose the complexes occurrence of a first complex is detected and a timing cycle generated in response thereto and a sweep of the cathode-ray tube is initiated at the end of the timing cycle after occurrences of all the complexes of each group and before the occurrences of the first complex of the next group.
A portable self-contained electrical cardiometric device employable for the quick monitoring and indicating of a heart-produced electrical signal in a person's body. The device includes three specially positioned electrical probes which are for electrically contacting a person's body to detect such a signal, a battery-powered electronic amplifier connected to these probes for amplifying a detected signal, and a suitable display or indicating unit for following the instantaneous amplitude of an amplified signal. The probes include fluid passages that communicate with a pump and a fluid reservoir in the device from which a conductive fluid may be ejected to enhance the electrical contact between the probes and a person's skin.
A flexible endoscope with a laser connected thereto for simultaneous viewing and performance of surgery on the interior stomach wall. A low power laser operating in the visible light range with the laser beam directed to one or more individual fiber optic fibers carried on an endoscope for performing laser surgery within a body cavity from an external position. A protective and replaceable cap for the distal end of the laser fiber.
An instrument for performing delicate surgery on man is provided with a continuous wave laser source specially associated with a binocular surgical microscope. The laser source emits electromagnetic radiation at wavelengths, preferably in the visible light range but also in the near visible infrared and ultraviolet ranges, which are absorbed selectively by different types of human tissue or tissue substructures. The source is mounted on a portable base remote from the operating area, and the radiation from the laser is communicated through a flexible fiber optic conductor to the binocular surgical operating microscope which is mounted on an articulating arm extending from the base so that the microscope may be freely positioned adjacent to the patient at the operating area. The laser beam is directed onto the tissue of the patient in a path coaxial with the viewing axis of the microscope to a point in the microscope's field of view. Controls on the microscope give the surgeon complete control of the laser beam. These include a focusing telescope for control of the laser spot size and angle of convergence of the beam, a joy stick control for moving the fiber optic tip to cause a corresponding movement in the focused laser beam on the tissue within the field of view of the microscope to allow the surgeon to precisely prescribe an incision or effect localized irradiation on that area of the patient. Transillumination of the tissues in the area of interest on the patient is possible by the direct laser beam emitted at a low-nonhazardous power level or by a second laser system which may be operated independently of the main high power surgical laser and is delivered by a hand-held sterile probe.
A device for holding surgical instruments firmly in place. A surgical instrument is attached to a retaining arm, the rigidity of which is controlled by a fluid actuated operating apparatus. By activating the operating apparatus, the arm can be made flexible as the instrument is being positioned and rigid once the instrument is in place.
A joint means for coupling two elements forming part of a work-supporting arm wherein the joint means is operable between a relaxed condition in which relative movement is permitted between the elements of the work-supporting arm and a rigidified condition in which the elements of the work-supporting arm are secured against relative movement. Pressurized fluid is utilized to effect rigidification with a continuous pressurized fluid system being operable to rigidify a plurality of joint means in a single work-supporting arm. Such a work-supporting arm is shown to be particularly useful in a surgical retractor wherein the arm includes retractor-retaining means, operable by the same pressurized fluid system to permit removal of the surgical retractor from the work-supporting arm.
An automatic surgery retraction apparatus which is self-supporting away from an operating table or a patient and is selectively positionable along both. The apparatus includes a vertically extensible upright assembly mounted for rotation about a base member and a horizontally extensible boom assembly mounted for pivotal movement about the upright assembly. The upright and boom assemblies are provided with electronic precision servo-positioning systems allowing remote actuation thereof for precise and accurate positioning. The boom assembly is provided with one or more disposable strap members carrying retraction instruments, which may also be disposable.
A human body massaging apparatus has an inflexible, body contacting cylindrical roller, rotatably mounted on a left and a right handgrip, so that the apparatus may be rolled over a human body to produce a massaging action. The handgrips are cylindrical in shape and of the same diameter as the body contacting, cylindrical roller, permitting the handgrips and the cylindrical roller to contact the human body simultaneously. Hands are easily slid back and forth between the same size roller and handles for alternately braking the roller and permitting it to roll, thereby intermittently stretching the skin. A cylindrical roller is composed of two half sections of cylindrical shape, attached to each other by a flexible shaft so that the half sections are capable of rotating independently of each other. This construction allows the cylindrical roller to be turned around contours of the human body.
A device for the mixing and administration of intravenous fluid comprising a cylindrical vial having an open end and a closed end, an inwardly extending integral annular ring within the vial and forming part of the walls of the vial intermediate said open and closed ends. A tippable center septum seals on the annular ring. An imperforate stopper is provided in the open end of the vial. The vial is adapted to contain two liquids or a liquid and a dry material in separated state. A non-opaque drip meter having a fluid outlet at one end and a fluid inlet is provided, the inlet comprising a tubular member terminating within the drip meter whereby drops can be visually observed at the end of the tubular member through the drip meter. Extending from the drip meter is a solid or hollow elongated rigid spike having an enlarged base adjacent the drip meter, the spike terminating in a point at its other end. A filtered air inlet is positioned in proximity to the base of the spike, a passage and filter are associated with the spike or base for admitting filtered air into the vial. A fluid passage runs through the base and has one end adjacent the spike at the exterior of the base and the other end communicates with the tubular member. The spike is adapted to puncture the stopper and tip the septum whereby the contents of the vial can be mixed without contamination from the exterior and the fluid contents of the vial can flow through the fluid passage and the drip meter while filtered air passes into the vial.
A standard drip meter assembly of the type having an upstanding stopper piercer with both an air inlet and a passage for the fluid into the drip meter, is supplemented by a solid air-inletting spike with a socket fitting over the stopper piercer and having a long shank that terminates in a non-coring piercing end. Passages adjacent the socket communicate with the air inlet and the passage in the drip meter stopper piercer. The supplemental spike is long enough to upset the septum after it pierces the stopper of a dual-chamber flask. An advantage is that inletting air then enters near the bottom of the flask to help agitate the fluid. An initiating pumping device for hand operation is provided adjacent the outlet of the drip meter.
A medication-administering device controlled for repetitive delivery, by intravenous injection or otherwise, of predetermined syringe volumes of said medication at present time intervals, wherein the syringe plunger medication injection stroke is achieved using a powering motor, and the control exercised over the mode of operation of the device is related to the rotational traverses of said motor. This minimizes non-uniform performance and other shortcomings which characterize prior art medication injection devices in which the performance of the powering motors are vulnerable to variances due to varying line voltage, changing work loads (i.e. medication with different viscosities) and the like.
A method for use in the study and diagnosis of vascular systems in which liquids of a wide range of viscosities and for various purposes may be injected into such a system at constant predetermined rates and volumes.Apparatus to inject radiopaque fluid into a vascular system comprising a syringe, a plunger in the syringe, a catheter connecting the syringe to the vascular system, means to move the plunger in the syringe, and means to measure and control the speed of the plunger in the syringe throughout the period of injection.
An angiographic injector control system for delivering a controlled volume of injection fluid is described. The injector has a motor driven piston for ejecting fluid from a syringe cartridge contained within a pressure jacket. The drive motor is operated in accordance with a command voltage corresponding to an incremental position of the injector piston, the command position signal also corresponding to the volume of fluid to be ejected from the cartridge. This command position voltage signal is compared to an actual position voltage to produce an error signal for operating the drive motor, whereby the syringe piston follows the position command signal. Volume selector means produce a volume signal corresponding to a desired maximum volume of fluid to be ejected; this volume signal is compared to the sum of the position command increments, producing a stop signal when the position command signal equals or exceeds the volume limit signal. Thus, the injector control system regulates the injection of fluid by sensing and controlling the position of the injector piston.
An injector for the injection of vaccines and the like beneath the layers of the skin or between layers of the skin comprising a base member having a generally flat bottom surface adapted to contact the surfaces of the skin, and a hollow tubular portion extending vertically upward from the base member. The hollow tubular portion has received therein a medicament vial. The vial has an open end and a closed end, an imperforate stopper in the open end, the open end facing the bottom of the tubular portion. A thrust portion extends from the base member upwardly within and centrally located in the tubular portion. A needle extends upwardly in the thrust portion. The upwardly extending portion of the needle has a sharpened end adapted to puncture the stopper. The needle also contains an obtuse or right angle bend and terminates with a second sharpened end in a plane at or below that plane defined by the bottom surface of the base member so that when the vial is depressed in the tubular portion, fluid communication is established between the interior of the vial and the second sharpened end of the needle.
A two component syringe having two vials each containing a single component. A needle is mounted in the syringe and is arranged to interconnect the vials prior to mixing the contents thereof. One vial is mounted on a holder having a needle hub. The other vial is mounted on an adapter sleeve removably mounted on the needle hub. The adapter sleeve and the other vial are removed after the ingredients have been mixed, leaving the first vial with the associated needle in readiness for injection.
Suction apparatus for taking samples of liquid such as blood. A receiving tube is provided with an axially slidable piston including a perforable resilient partition, and a support rod, carrying a hollow needle connected to a suction tube, is insertable into the open end of the receiving tube, so that the needle when the support is inserted in the open end perforates the partition and places the space beyond the piston in communication with the suction tube. Interengagement of the support and piston prevents the piston moving relative to the support, when the support is moved relative to the receiving tube. More than one rod may be provided on a common suction duct.
An inhalation device comprises a body with a dispersion chamber. A rotor is arranged in the chamber and is caused to rotate by passage of air through the chamber. One or more air inlet apertures open into the chamber around the rotor. A mouthpiece communicates with the chamber and air from the chamber can be inhaled through this mouthpiece. A capsule-retaining pocket is arranged to receive a pierced capsule and opens into the chamber. Inhalation of air through the mouthpiece will rotate the rotor, vibrate the capsule, draw medicament from the medicament containing capsule through the chamber and out through the mouthpiece.
A dispensing device for dispensing finely divided medicament from a capsulelike container. A hollow elongated housing has at both ends thereof at least one passageway to permit passage of air, and one end is adapted for insertion into the mouth. A propellerlike member is rotatably mounted in the housing and has on the part thereof farthest from the end of the housing adapted for insertion into the mouth a mounting means adapted to receive the capsulelike container. Also included is a means for perforating the container.
A method and device for dispensing a particulate medicament material from a container. The container provided with at least one powder outlet is rotated by pneumatic means about an axis of the container. The axis of rotation is caused to precess so as to describe a path of precession which is contained within a generally conical surface of precession, and the axis of rotation of the container is at an angle to the axis of the generally conical surfaces of precession. This causes the walls of the container to undergo repeated changes in radial acceleration with respect to the axis of the generally conical surface of precession, which changes of acceleration are of sufficient magnitude to overcome the centrifugal and cohesive forces which hold the particles of powder in place upon the wall of the container.
This invention is concerned with some improvements in the inhaling devices with whirling chamber, devices that may be considered in their essential operation per se known and are intended to disperse the contents of a capsule filled with a powder medicinal composition.The invention essentially resides in the provision of a mouth piece that is of a telescopic structure and in the provision of two piercing devices that are provided into a rotatable member according to a diametral opposed position and are actuated by the member, the telescoping structure when extended forming the whirling chamber, the mantel of the latter mentioned member being formed with a cam able to give a number of piercing operations to both piercing devices.
A diaper device for use with a male baby using a diaper which need only be changed when the baby has a bowel movement. The diaper has an opening through which the male member extends in a non-chafe manner. An externally disposed removable urine absorbent container is detachably secured to the diaper in the region of the opening to collect urine for subsequent disposal.
A medical device for collecting solid and liquid waste discharged from an orifice or opening in a patient, said device comprising a disposable bag into which the waste is discharged, the bag having a waste receiving opening; a velcro type fastener secured to the periphery of the bag opening; and a mating velcro type fastener secured detachably to the patient and surrounding the orifice or opening whereby the bag is sealed to the patient in a liquid tight manner when the two fasteners are detachably engaged.
An absorbent dressing is provided having improved fluid absorptive properties by including therein a substantially uncompressed body comprising absorbent fibers of an alkali metal salt of carboxyalkyl cellulose. The absorbent carboxyalkyl cellulose fibers are heat-treated so as to become insoluble but swellable in water at room temperatures and by virtue of this heat treatment, derive the improved fluid absorptive properties of this invention.
Bibulous cellulosic fibers for use in fibrous structures having an inherently absorptive function, for example surgical dressings, surgical sponges filters, catamenial napkins, tampons and diapers, which bibulous cellulosic fibers, and fibrous structures containing said bibulous fibers in effective amounts, are characterized by greatly improved absorbency for and retention of aqueous solutions, including physiological solutions. The bibulous cellulosic fibers are substantially water-insoluble, wet cross-linked fibrous salts of carboxymethyl cellulose having a sufficiently high degree of carboxymethyl substitution to insure water solubility in the absence of cross-linking. The bibulous cellulosic fibers are produced under conditions which preserve the fibrous form of the cellulose fiber raw material.
Improved fluid absorption and retention products comprising fibrous carboxyalkyl cellulose having average degrees of substitution greater than 0.35, said fibrous carboxyalkyl cellulose having been heat-treated to render it water-insoluble and in compressed form to increase its fluid absorption and retention properties.
A surgical electrode is described. This instrument is adapted to fit into a body cavity, to be directed by the surgeon to an operative area in the cavity and then to emit a cauterizing electric current. Several embodiments are disclosed. In one, a blind electrode is positioned and pulsed. In another, an electrode is coupled with optics to permit directing it by sight or by CRT display. In another, a forked or dual electrode is shaped to the body cavity and can be properly positioned with excellent reliability. Preferably, at least the portion of the instrument inserted in the body cavity is disposable. The present invention includes method and apparatus for female sterilization using the electrode for cauterization of fallopian tubes.
An improved cigarette, that has the advantage of a filter which cannot be tasted; the cigarette includes a unit fitted into the end of the cigarette that is inserted into a smokers mouth, the unit consists of a first end section filled with charcoal and which is positioned adjacent the tobacco that is to be burned, a middle section comprising a filter, and an opposite end section that is filled with tobacco and which extends foremost into the mouth of a smoker, so that a smoker's tongue can touch the tobacco instead of the filter through which the smoke is drawn so as to give the smoke a final tobacco flavor instead of a straw or plastic like taste caused by a filter against the tongue tip.
A cigarette unit having a tobacco filled cigarette body portion including a tubular thin walled filter core portion embedded coaxially in the tobacco of the cigarette body, extending coextensive therewith, and formed of thin combustible paper material, burning away as the cigarette is smoked. The cigarette unit has a filter tip portion including a filter mass and a trap socket recess to catch liquid condensate and impurities of combustion of a burning cigarette. The invention preferably further includes a match detachably fitted in the forward interior of the tubular filter core of the cigarette body and a striking surface formed on the exterior surface of a cigarette package for igniting a match in lighting a cigarette.
A hair roller having a tubular body with a substantially smooth outer surface, a collar disposed around a closed end of the tubular body and spaced radially therefrom by a plurality of circumferentially spaced spokes, a clip extending longitudinally along the tubular body to contact a flat portion of the outer surface thereof, a spring member having a short leg engaging a head of the clip at the closed end of the body and a long leg extending through a slot in the closed end of the body, and a heating cartridge inserted in the tubular body and clamping the long leg of the spring member at the closed end such that the clip is biased against the flat portion of the outer surface of the tubular body and is pivotable away therefrom.
A hairwinder having radially flanges at the end adapted for ease of handling and for minimizing tangling when the hair is unwound. The hairwinder is provided with fin or tongue-like projections which are of varying height and which lie in planes transverse to the longitudinal axis with end edges forming an angle of 90.degree. or more with the tangential plane of the curved outer surface through the base point of the end edge.
A set of tonsorial implements for maintaining the sideburns and moustache in a neat and attractive shape; the implements consisting of separate tools each one of which is designed to be used as a template for placement either over a sideburn or a moustache so that a person can trim hair or whiskers projecting beyond the template edge; the templates each accordingly being specifically shaped and sized for a particular style of sideburn or moustache.
A head ornament for wearing over the hair comprises two arcuate members hinged to each other and covered with ornamentation. The construction is adapted to wear with different hair styling.
A novel hair-portion for a hair-wig having multi directional contractility processed in three steps namely providing two stitching lines on the hair bundle, folding said bundle in two rows which is then provided with two lines of stitches, and further folding said bundle wherein lower threads in each processing of each step are spirally stitched by means of a looper of the sewing machine, said lower threads having contractility being spirally stitched during said threads being stretched in the lengthwise direction under the condition that the hair bundles are tensiled in the third step so that a multi directional contractility is provided to the hair-piece.
A detachable wiglet to be worn on a woman's hair in any of three positions is disclosed which is constructed by sewing a fringe of hairlike filaments to a foundation of burlap in a spiral pattern beginning near the periphery of the burlap and terminating near the center. The wiglet is an oval shape having a major axis of substantially 71/2 inches and a minor axis of substantially 61/8 inches.
An already machine made wig is cut and set as desired and styled as necessary for a desired effect. The wefts are each removed from the wig foundation and their length and location recorded. The length of hair on each weft and the sections therealong is also recorded for each weft. The character of the curl and set for each weft so removed is also recorded for each weft and any variation of the sections therealong. Then wefts of hair are made up according to the recordings of the length of the weft and the length of the hair in the sections therealong. A set is applied to each weft according to the record for each weft. Each weft is attached to a wig foundation in accordance with the recordings of locations. The wig can then be further styled as desired by combing and is ready for wear.
A travel make-up case comprises a body portion to which are hinged auxiliary storage boxes or containers, the latter being shiftable to use and non-use positions. A hinged cover on the body portion is adapted to overlie and coincide with the tops of the body portion and auxiliary boxes when the case is closed. The body portion contains electrical components and controls and the hinged cover contains an illuminated mirror.
The invention relates to a method of producing cigar rods, the filler for the smokable part and the filler for the mouth part being supplied separately to a press well; between the separately supplied fillers there will be a more or less pronounced separating plane, which decreases the strength of the cigar rod; to increase said strength the fillers must engage or felt together at the separating plane and according to the invention the amount of interengagement of the fillers can be controlled.
A dental floss holder dispenses a supply of floss through a radial aperture in a body shaped to rest in the hand, and therefrom through apertures in the end of two forked tines extending from the body and spaced apart enough to present a working length of floss into the mouth. The floss is tensioned by finger pressure against a span of floss across a bow portion between the radial aperture and the end of one tine. The tines are extended far enough from the body and gently curved to facilitate reaching upper and lower teeth without inserting the finger into the mouth.
This invention relates to a dental floss dispenser comprising an elongated finger section and a dental floss spool holding section. Dental floss on a spool is easily threaded from the spool section to the end of the finger section through an open slot on the side and through open slots in the finger of the dispenser. Turning of the spool to withdraw floss is controlled by a pin which engages a notch on the spool. Push button means on the side of the dispenser release the spool from the pin to permit the spool to turn.
A machine for washing dishes as well as pots and pans includes a rack contacting sensor mechanism for determining whether a dish rack or a pots and pans rack is positioned within the machine. The sensor mechanism distinguishes between the sizes or types of the dish racks and pots and pans racks, and through an electrical circuit automatically adjusts the washer spray pressure depending upon the type of rack located in the machine.
A washing machine including a washing compartment for alternatively receiving either one of a first type of article-carrying dolly having a conduit system and a second type of article-carrying dolly not having a conduit system, a fluid inlet in the washing compartment, a rotatable spray head mounted in the washing compartment, and a transfer valve connected to the fluid inlet and responsive to the type of dolly received in the washing compartment for controlling the flow of fluid from the fluid inlet to the spray head when the second type of dolly is in the compartment and to the conduit system of the first type of dolly when the first type of dolly is in the washing compartment.
An underarm crutch having tubular side frame members, a tubular underarm support, and a handgrip and center leg element adjustably mounted on and between said side frame members. The side frame members are angularly movable relative to each other to disengage said handgrip and center leg element so that they may be moved to different positions, and to re-engage said handgrip and center leg element so that they may be secured in said different positions.
A trough-like implement having a wall member or members extending forward at one end and along the sides to define a substantially continuous sealing lip around the two sides and one end, is used to drain pipe or ducts which carry liquid to and from a liquid holding container, such as a swimming pool, without materially reducing the liquid level of the container. The trough-like implement is lowered into the pool with the sealing lip in engagement with a container wall and surrounding a duct port so that the area inside the trough-like member is effectively isolated from the main body of liquid in the container. The liquid inside the trough-like implement is then removed, as by bailing or siphoning, to a level below the duct port, the duct is next drained and sealed and the implement is then removed to let the liquid in the container seek its own level. The process is repeated for each duct which is to be drained.
A swimming pool cleaning system comprising a pool structure having inner surfaces, and a plurality of rotating jet delivery means adapted to deliver jet streams of water substantially parallel to and in adjacent relation with the inner surfaces of the pool for washing and cleaning said inner surfaces; said means also provided with jet nozzles disposed at an acute angle to the rotating axis of the rotary jet delivery means to maintain deleterious matter in suspension in the water so that it may be carried away by the pool circulation system.
A nonflooding perimeter skimming gutter wall for swimming pools is provided, including a first gutter conduit for disposition about the perimeter of a swimming pool, and adapted to carry water at a level below a predetermined level of water in the swimming pool, a retaining wall on the pool-side of the first gutter conduit over the top of which wall a skimming flow of water may run from the pool into the first gutter conduit, a second gutter conduit within a peripheral wall below the first gutter conduit and adapted to carry water at a level above a predetermined level of water in the first gutter conduit, and a fluid flow connection between the two gutter conduits at such level and below the top of the retaining wall allowing water to flow from the first gutter conduit into the second gutter conduit whenever the water level on the first gutter conduit reaches the fluid flow connection, thereby inhibiting filling of the first gutter conduit appreciably above such level.
Control apparatus is disclosed for regulating fluid pressure in a fluid system between predetermined lower and upper limits of such pressure by comparing electrical voltages proportional to the fluid pressure in said system and to said lower and upper limits of pressure. Electrical control signals are generated in response to differences in the compared voltages to actuate solenoid operated valves connected in the fluid system for increasing the fluid pressure in the system when below said lower limit, and decreasing said fluid pressure when above said upper limit. The specific embodiment of the control system described is connected to control the pilot pressure of a pilot operated hydraulic pressure regulator.
The pressure at a downstream point in a conduit through which a fluid is flowing is controlled so as to maintain the pressure at an upstream point in the conduit substantially constant. Said control is effected by measuring the pressure and flow rate at said downstream point, and adjusting said pressure in accordance with the measured pressure and measured flow rate.
Control apparatus is disclosed for regulating fluid pressure in a fluid system between predetermined lower and upper limits of such pressure by comparing electrical voltages proportional to the fluid pressure in said system and to said lower and upper limits of pressure. Electrical control signals are generated in response to differences in the compared voltages to actuate solenoid operated valves connected in the fluid system for increasing the fluid pressure in the system when below said lower limit, and decreasing said fluid pressure when above said upper limit. The specific embodiment of the control system described is connected to control the pilot pressure of a pilot operated hydraulic pressure regulator.
A hydrant for controlling the flow of water from an underground supply includes drain apparatus for draining the hydrant to prevent frost damage while preventing ground water contamination of potable water from the supply. Water from the supply is admitted by a supply valve to a casing extending from below the frost line to above ground. When the valve is closed, water from within the casing drains through a conduit having an inlet within the casing below the frost line and having an outlet located below the inlet and outside of the casing. The conduit includes a siphon located above both the inlet and outlet, and preferably above ground. The conduit includes an air chamber for maintaining an air gap within the conduit. A check valve is provided to prevent backflow through the conduit from the outlet to the inlet.
A hydrant having an inlet port and a discharge port with a fluid passageway therebetween, and an air compression chamber in communication with the fluid passageway wherein compressed air therein will purge the remaining fluid from the fluid passageway when the inlet port is closed.
The apparatus described consists of a casing for attachment to a frame  elnt of the stove, conventional means for tapping gas from the cartridge, a sleeve extending over the casing, a series of radial grippers rigidly connected to the frontal end of the sleeve and adapted to the bead of the cartridge mouth, and axial thrust means for mounting the cartridge to the grippers. The sleeve is mobile on the casing and subject to the return action of the axial thrust means toward a position of engagement of the grippers on the cartridge bead.
A coupling device for mounting appliances such as camp stoves gas lamps on compressed gas containers of the type having an opening surrounded by a circular projecting fold. The device comprises a hollow member equipped at one end with a number of fingers, and a sleeve, which may be displaced vertically along this hollow member. This sleeve in its lower position presses the fingers against the fold and is blocked in this lower position either by means of two semi-circular springs which co-operate with a special shaped slit in the sleeve or by means of special fingers which block the sleeve.
An improved appliance gas service connector and gas cutoff valve is provided which includes a pipeline and rotational angular coupling combination in conjunction with an improved and unique gas cut-off valve for connecting an appliance to the gas main. The combination permits the appliance to be moved out from or in toward the wall for cleaning purposes without any danger of rupturing the line which connects the appliance to the mains. A gas cut-off valve is included which automatically cuts off the gas when the ambient temperature is excessive (370.degree. approx.) which may indicate fire.
An air operated safety system for controlling the level of liquid in a container. A pressurized air system is provided to maintain a valve in a liquid feed system open and a value in a safety alarm system closed during normal safe operation. An unsafe condition depressurizes the system to close the liquid feed line and engage the safety alarm.
This invention relates to air vent heads, especially for ventilation of ship's tanks. The new air vent head consists of an assembly of a central joint unit connectable and accommodated in size to a ventilating duct and one or more peripheral units with orificial chambers. The size of the peripheral units is uniform and the accommodation to the width or square area of the respective ventilating duct and joint chamber is ensured by connection of a corresponding number of peripheral units to the central joint unit.
A double check valve vent in which floatable valves are positioned in avent line to be floated up against a valve seat when fluid flowsoutwardly from the tank or flows inwardly toward the tank. The floatablevalve in the absence of fluid are each spaced a substantial distance fromits respective valve seat so that fumes venting from the tank may movefreely with a complete absence of back pressure.
A pneumatic conveying system has a receptacle provided with at least two apertures having inclined axes. A first tubular element is seal-tightly mounted in one of the apertures and a portion -- which may be of one piece with or separate from the remainder of said first tubular element -- surrounds the aperture in the interior of the receptacle. A second tubular element is also seal-tightly mounted in the other of these apertures. It includes one tubular member of a larger diameter and an inner end portion of which -- of one piece with or separate from the remainder of the one tubular member -- surrounds the aperture in the interior of the receptacle, whereas the outer end portion of this one tubular member has a transverse wall provided with an opening. Another tubular member of a smaller diameter has an inner end portion -- again either of one piece with or separate from the remainder from the other tubular member -- which interiorly surrounds the opening in the transverse wall.
An in-line valve is composed of a plurality of cone shaped sections, each of said sections having a number of segments, said segments having relief openings or orifices except in the final section, said segments being mounted within the oversized housing which connects to the conduit means, said segments being pivotably connected to said housing by a hinge and rib means so as to deploy the segments automatically to form the cone shaped valving section.
A diaphragm-type control valve for installation in drain lines and thelike to prevent backflow of water through said drain line which sometimesoccurs due to floods and the like. A generally conical tubular body isprovided with spiral vanes thereon reinforced with pins to preventeversion of the diaphragm and apertures are provided at the lower portionof the diaphragm for ventilation purposes.
A lamellar valve, such as for compressors, having a seating plate and a plurality of elastic tongues arranged in parallel alongside one another and covering throughflow openings in the seating plate. The free ends of the tongues extend alternately in opposite directions over the throughflow openings. A catcher plate having abutment tongues also extending alternately from opposite directions and bent away from the seating plate forms the end abutment for the free ends of the elastic tongues.
A uniflow valve comprising a pack of flexible plates alternating with valve seats having portions of varying thickness. The flexible plates have inlet channels for the working fluid and at least some part of the flexible plates have teeth which close the fluid inlet channels on the length from the roots to the tops of the teeth. The valve seats are provided with fluid outlet channels facing the spaces between the teeth.
A safety control valve system for fluid actuated devices comprising two fluid-motor operated main valve means, each of which has supply and exhaust valve members, at least one of said main valve means being normally open, that is, having its supply valve member open and its exhaust valve member closed when said valve means is de-activated. Means connects the supply valve members of the two valve means in series between supply and outlet ports and the exhaust valve members in parallel between the outlet and exhaust ports. A normally closed pilot valve is provided for the normally closed valve means, if any, and a normally open pilot valve or valves for the normally open valve means. Movement of either valve means to its exhaust position will therefore completely stop the supply of pressurized fluid to the outlet port and provide a direct exhaust connection with good exhausting capacity, even if the other valve means is stuck in an open or partially open position.
A solenoid actuated three-way valve to admit air under pressure to a spring biased piston in a cylinder and, alternatively, to exhaust the cylinder to the atmosphere. Two pilot valves are operated substantially in tandem. The operator has a lost motion connection with the valves for positive valve actuation in the event of pressure failure. A framework between one main valve and one pilot valve for the other main valve causes the one pilot valve to close when the one main valve opens, and vice versa. Both main valves are oriented so that fluid pressure biases them in a closing direction. Small closing bias springs and a small solenoid may thus be utilized. Good valve seating is thus obtainable. The overall size of the valve is also reduced.
Two normally closed three-way main valves are connected in series to supply fluid to an outlet port. When moved to their closed positions, the valves provide parallel connections from the outlet port to exhaust. Therefore, if either valve is stuck in an open or partially open position, movement of the other valve to its closed position will provide good exhausting capacity. Furthermore, there will be no substantial pressure at the outlet port until both valves are actuated to their open position. Movement of either valve to its exhaust position will completely stop the supply of air to the outlet port and provide a direct exhaust connection.
A three-way, two-position diverter valve used to direct inlet flow through one of two outlets, as desired, in which the valve member is substantially balanced to permit high differential pressure thereacross with only a small force required to hold the valve member in sealing contact. A balance rod is connected to the valve member with the free end thereof projecting from the valve member into a pressure chamber. Means communicate with a passage through the valve member and with the area above the balance rod in the pressure chamber, alternately connecting the pressure chamber with the inlet passage and with one of the outlet flow passages. The area of the free end of the balance rod is substantially equal to the area of the valve seat so that the valve member and the balance rod create opposing forces.
A sliding valve is reciprocably received at one end portion within a socket formed in a valve housing. The sliding valve and valve housing are each provided with a plurality of ports extending therethrough for relative movement into and out of registration for applying pressure to one end of a piston containing cylinder while venting the other end of the cylinder. Control means, connected with the sliding valve, maintains the latter in one of two positions relative to the housing.
A shuttle valve which requires positive pressure to provide positive displacement thereof.
The ascension pipe flap is pivotally supported on a shaft that is, in turn, rotatably supported by a portion of the collecting main outwardly beyond the ascension pipe. A counterweight and a lever are nonrotatably secured to the same shaft. The ascension pipe lid is connected by means of a first lever to a shaft and a second lever is connected to the same shaft. A telescopic actuator is connected to one end to the lever associated with the ascension pipe flap and at the other end to the second lever associated with the ascension pipe lid. In normal operation, when the ascension pipe is connected to the collecting main, the ascension pipe lid is closed and the ascension pipe flap is opened to permit flow of gases through the ascension pipe to the collecting main. When it is desired to close the ascension pipe, the telescopic actuator is retracted and because of the lever and counterweight, the torque required to close the valve flap is less than the torque required to open the ascension pipe lid and the ascension pipe flap first closes. Thereafter continued retraction of the telescopic actuator opens the ascension pipe lid. Similarly, when it is desired to connect the ascension pipe to the collecting main, the telescopic actuator is extended and because the torque for closing the ascention pipe lid is less than the torque for closing the valve flap, the ascension pipe lid first closes and thereafter the valve flap opens.
A relay valve for use in a vehicle air brake system includes a movable piston and a movable shuttle controlling the flow of air pressure between a supply port, a delivery port and an exhaust port. The piston has a seal in alignment with a seal on the shuttle, which seals are effective, when the piston has closed upon the shuttle, to create generally equal and opposite air pressure responsive areas on the piston to balance it within the valve. In like manner, the shuttle has spaced seal members, generally aligned and generally of the same diameter, to create equal and opposite air pressure responsive areas on the shuttle to balance the shuttle within the valve. both the shuttle seal members and the seal members providing generally equal air pressure responsive areas on the piston are generally in alignment and generally of the same diameter.
A relay valve for air systems in which a poppet valve member having seats for controlling respectively venting and supply is formed with an axial cylindrical bore and the valve housing has a polygonal shaft extending centrally upward, received by the bore for precise guiding of the poppet and permitting communication between the opposite ends of the poppet to provide a balanced valve member making springs and other compensating means unnecessary.
A step opening thermostatic control device includes a main valve and a step valve for controlling flow through a flow passage between inlet and outlet ports of a casing, the main valve including a main valve stem carrying a valve seat for the step valve, and the step valve including a step valve stem extending through the main valve stem and carrying a step valve member biased toward the step valve seat such that movement of the step valve stem by temperature responsive means initially opens the step valve with opening of the main valve being delayed after the initial opening of the step valve.
A stopper to prevent water from backing up through a floor drain having a concave brace the ends of which fit under lips on the inner, top sides of the drain bowl, a stem threaded through the middle of the brace and a pivoted plate connected to the lower end of the stem to cover the drain bowl outlet.
A pneumatically actuated pipe thread protector is disclosed as including a relatively rigid annular boot with an inflatable tube mounted therein. The boot is mounted over and about the portion of a pipe to be protected, and the tube is inflated to frictionally grip the pipe and hold the boot onto the pipe as it is moved about. Valve means for inflating and deflating the tube are recessed within the outer wall of the boot, and the boot preferably has rounded, smooth corners so no sharp edges or projections are provided on the exposed exterior of the ring. Also, the open end of the protector is unobstructed so that a drift pin or other instrument can be dropped through the pipe.
A precast concrete trough having a first member with bottom cross braces, sides and removable top and a second member having a single cross brace and sides fitting exterior of the first member.
An end cap closure assembly for closing the end of a tubular member, particularly the cross bar hanger member of a gym set. The assembly includes a generally hollow body portion having a skirt portion extending therefrom and defining an interiorly facing annular shoulder with the body portion. The skirt portion is adapted to surround the exterior surface of the end portion of a tubular member, for example, the cross bar hanger, with the end thereof abutting the shoulder. The body portion is formed with an opening in the end thereof opposite the skirt portion with the opening communicating with the interior of the skirt portion. An elongated strap member is insertable into the opening formed in the body portion and extends axially beyond the skirt portion. The strap member includes a head portion adapted to close the opening in the body portion and has an aperture formed in the portion of the strap member extending beyond the skirt portion which is adapted to receive fastening means inserted therethrough to secure the assembly to the tubular member.
A kink-resistant hose construction which is particularly suited for use with respiration apparatus for infants comprises a one-piece tube of flexible material having a smooth, generally cylindrical inner wall surface for efficient air flow and easy cleaning and axially spaced concentric rings on its outer wall. The tube wall is very thin and flexible and is reinforced by the rings of the same material integrally formed on the outer wall of the tube. The rings are configurated and sized to substantially maintain their circular shapes even in sharp bends, and the unsupported portions of the tube wall or columns between rings allow bending with minimum effort. The axial spacing between rings is less than the inside diameter of the tube. Consequently, when the tube is bent sharply enough to buckle the unsupported portion, two adjacent rings contact each other and the folded portion of the thin wall extends only a small distance into the flow path so ample flow may be maintained.
This pipe comprises two layers of profiled rods helically wound in opposite directions.The cross section of these profiled rods is such as to delimit between opposite walls of adjacent rods substantially confined spaces filled with a tightening resilient material which adheres to these opposite walls.
This flexible shaft includes a flexible core surrounded with at least one armoring constituted of at least two layers of helically wound metallic wires or cables. This shaft is characterized in that each armoring layer is provided with an anchoring layer wherein it is embedded, this anchoring layer being constituted of an elastomeric or thermoplastic material which has been subjected to a thermal treatment, in combination with a thin hooping and separating layer which covers the armoring layer and is constituted of a material which can withstand the thermal treatment without flowing, this material preferably retracting under the conditions of this thermal treatment.
The opposite outer layers of the web are of synthetic organic polymeric resin of different properties.
A piping in which a plastic tubular member is encased in wire mesh for use in fire sprinkler systems. The mesh substantially protects the tubular member from thermal deterioration. When deterioration does occur, it is generally in the form of pin holes which permit water to flow onto the mesh, cooling it, and preventing further heat transfer to the tubular member.
An improved loomside comprised of a primary loomside support section, which section has means formed integrally on one side thereof to locate the end of the loom main girder at a preselected location with respect to the perimetrical limits of the primary support section, and a plurality of secondary support sections detachably secured to the primary support section.
A support base for an ornamental water fountain includes a base housing having at least one water inlet opening to an internal chamber from an upper portion of which an outlet opening is formed through the housing. A fountain nozzle is coupled to the housing via the outlet opening. A plurality of lamp support arms are each connected at one end thereof to the housing to extend radially from the housing substantially normal to the axis of the chamber outlet opening. At least one lamp is mounted to each arm to illuminate the fountain pattern produced by water discharged from the nozzle. The base and lamps may be installed as a unit in a fountain bowl. By connection of floats to the support arms or to the housing, the assembly may be used as illuminated floating fountain in lakes and the like.
A fountain base includes a housing which defines a symmetrical internal chamber. An inlet opening and an outlet opening to and from the chamber are formed coaxially of the chamber through opposite ends of the chamber. Means are provided for mounting a water discharge nozzle to the housing coaxially of the chamber outlet opening. Liquid flow controlling means are operatively associated with the path of liquid flow through the chamber from the inlet opening to the outlet opening, and are proportioned and arranged for causing liquid flowing along the path at the outlet opening to have an essentially laminar flow characteristic and an essentially uniform liquid flow pattern. The flow controlling means include the proportioning of the chamber to have a mean cross-sectional area in a plane transverse to the axis of symmetry which is substantially greater than the effective area of the inlet opening.
An articulated joint mechanism transmitting to the slay of a weaving loom a reciprocating motion with a delay in one of its extreme positions sufficient for picking the weft through the shed even at a high rotating speed of the drive and with woven fabrics of large width, the mechanism providing in one extreme position of the slay a negligible angular travel of the slay during a large angular travel of a rotating crank element, which drives the mechanism.
For regulating the operation of a weft inserting apparatus during each cycle of loom operation, a sector lever is positively connected by a gear segment or similar element to the weft inserting apparatus and a linkage assembly is connected to the sector lever for reciprocating a weft inserting member during two-thirds of each cycle of loom operation and, during the remaining one-third of each cycle, retaining the weft inserting member in a position spaced outwardly from the shed of the loom. One end of the sector lever is secured to a fixed support and its other end is free so that during each cycle of operation the lever pivots through an angle in the range of 50.degree. to 70.degree.. The linkage assembly includes a coupling lever attached to the free end of the sector lever and during operation the coupling lever, relative to the sector lever, is disposed in a range of 90.degree. to between 105.degree. and 125.degree.. In addition, the linkage assembly includes a driving lever pivotally connected at one end to the coupling lever and at its other end to a fixed support, a connecting rod connected to the point of pivotal attachment of the driving lever to the coupling lever, and a crank connected to the end of the connecting rod spaced from the coupling lever and the driving lever. The crank is arranged to be driven in synchronization with the main shaft of the loom.
A narrow elastic fabric suitable for use in the band encircling portion of articles of apparel. The fabric comprises a set of filling yarns running in the transverse direction of the fabric and a set of warp yarns running in the longitudinal direction of the fabric. The warp yarns comprise elastic yarns, stretch synthetic yarns and nonelastic yarns. There are twice as many stretch synthetic yarns as there are elastic yarns and three times as many nonelastic yarns as there are stretch yarns in the warp set. The nonelastic yarns are woven with the filling yarns in a twill weave whereas the remaining warp yarns are woven with the filling yarns in a plain weave so that the face surface of the fabric is primarily composed of nonelastic yarns.
This invention relates to paper machine clothing, and more particularly to a woven forming medium, the machine direction yarns of which have crimps which undulate in the cross-machine direction, and to a method for producing same.
This invention relates to an improved papermakers' fabric for use in the press section of a papermaking machine and more specifically to a papermakers' fabric having a plurality of spaced, parallel, substantially incompressible grooves in at least one surface thereof, which provide void volume for water expressed from a paper web as it passes through the pressure nip of the press rolls in the machine.
The invention concerns a manufacturing method of a spool of wire, comprising the following steps:Maintaining continually under tension the wire to be wound between a supply spool and a clamping device of this wire which is carried by the spindle;Making one complete revolution of the spindle when the wire-guide is located in an extreme position towards this spindle in order to position correctly the first turn of the spool;Driving the spindle in rotation for a number of turns corresponding to the number of turns of the spool, the wire-guide displacing itself in a reciprocal movement which is controlled by the rotation of the spindle;Opening the wire clamping device;Making, when the wire-guide is in extreme position towards the spindle, one complete revolution of this spindle to place a new portion of wire into the clamping device and thereby extracting simultaneously the portion of wire leading to the first turn of the spool;Closing again the wire clamping device and cutting simultaneously the end of the wire coming from the last turn of the spool and finally ejecting the completed spool.
A tension tool for tightening plastic strap around a package including a base plate with two bearing walls thereon carrying an integral hand grip, a drum journalled in the bearing walls with a toothed portion disposed therebetween and a slotted portion for engaging one end of the strap, a gripping dog on a bearing wall to grip an end of the strap, an operating handle journalled on the drum and carrying a drive pawl engaging the toothed portion of the drum, a holding pawl on the bearing walls engaging the toothed portion of the drum to prevent retrograde motion, a release bar for the holding pawl on the operating handle and a release lever for the drive pawl on the operating handle engageable with an abutment on the base plate, and a knife mounted on the bearing walls to cut a strap.
The conveyor system propels pallets by frictional contact between a rotating drive shaft and a drive wheel carried by the pallet. The drive wheel is pivotally mounted for movement between a drive position oblique to the drive shaft axis and a stop position with the wheel axis parallel to the drive shaft axis. Stops are selectively positioned to engage an arm connected to the drive wheel and move it to the stop position. The arm is provided with three vertical positions; a lower position where it passes the stop, an intermediate position where it engages the stop, and an upper position where it is released from the stop. Each pallet is provided with a rearwardly facing stop to engage the arm and prevent collision between the pallets.
An aisle delivery system operable in limited traffice areas such as the passenger aisle in a commercial aircraft, said system permitting delivery of food and beverages by placing trays on pallets pivoted to a bracket depending from an overhead carrier which moves along a conveyor track fixed to the upper part of the fuselage. Means are provided to immobilize the overhead carrier at selected positions along the conveyor track, and a universal joint is provided between the bracket and the overhead conveyor to counteract angular flight changes. Junction means connect the main conveyor track to branch tracks which lead to service areas or the like.
A plant for cleaning bottles and for filling the bottles with a beverage is arranged to reduce the consumption of water. The plant includes a heat-exchanger with a primary and a secondary circuit. The beverage to be bottled is passed through the secondary circuit for extracting heat from the primary circuit. One part of the primary circuit is connected to a chamber which collects water after it is sprayed on the bottles and another part of the primary circuit is traversed by a liquid used in a vacuum pump associated with the beverage filling operating. After its passage through the heat-exchanger, the water used to spray the bottles is returned to the spraying operation. Controls, including valves, are provided for selectively directing the return flow of water from the heat-exchanger to different parts of the spraying operation.
A wall structure of a building in which heat is exchanged between exhaust air and intake air.
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for obtaining pure spray water for steam desuperheating purposes wherein a portion of the steam produced in the boiler is passed through a condensing chamber, and the liquid condensate is then used as the spray water.
This invention relates to an apparatus for filling a catalytic converter with a granular type catalyst for use on a motor vehicle and includes a fixture to vibrate the converter during the fill operation to assure complete filling of the converter and a vacuum valve mechanism in the fill hose to shut off the flow of the catalyst material without any spillage or crushing upon the converter being filled.
A drum filling overflow cut-off device for stopping the overflow in the filling of drums with a liquid fed thereto by a nozzle inserted in a fillhole in the drum. A splash collar position above the fillhole and moveable as a result of liquid splashing therefrom actuates a switch due to a change in position of the splash collar, the switch actuation resulting in termination of the flow into the drum.
A woodworking machine tool such as a router is provided with a supporting table for mounting the woodworking machine tool and workpiece supporting bed for mounting and holding a workpiece. The supporting table may include a template supporting bed to support a template having a preselected workpiece configuration cut therein. The supporting table includes a supporting structure for movably mounting the machine and movably supporting a profile element movable over the template to cause the machine to cut a workpiece in accordance with the configuration described by the template profile. The two supporting beds are integrally connected to allow the duplication of workpieces. The table is provided with workpiece clamps including vacuum operated holding plates. The machine tool is also adapted to control the path of the machine over preselected paths for effecting dadoing operations.
A device for centering timber blocks or the like when being fed into sawing machines, in which centering means, swingably disposed for working on opposite sides of the blocks, are so coupled that they move from a normal position outwards from each other or inwards towards each other an equal distance, coupling of the centering device being achieved by means of one or more chains, bands or the like which run in opposite directions over chain wheels or the like attached to the centering means, and a spring device which determines the normal position if coupled with at least one of the centering means. The spring device consists of a screw and a nut working in conjunction with it as well as a spring mounted on the screw between the nut and a stop, which screw is given more or less tension by turning of the nut. The screw is connected to an arm mounted on the centering means, through a nut, which is penetrated by the screw. The screw is to be turned in relation to the nut in order to set the starting position of the centering means.
A faucet cover includes a casing, open at the base thereof, insulating material lining the interior surface of the casing and defining a cavity into which a faucet may be received when the cover is placed over the faucet, and a weight embedded in the insulating material near the base of the cover for stabilizing the cover when it is placed on the ground. A handle is located on the top outer surface of the casing.
A radial tire for heavy-duty vehicles comprises a tread having a central portion and two lateral portions. The central portion is formed with at least one circumferential rib and at least two circumferential grooves, and each lateral portion is formed with a circumferential zigzag rib and with transverse grooves and blocks. The circumferential zigzag rib defines angles that are alternately reentrant and salient, and the transverse grooves and blocks form extensions, in a direction towards the nearer edge of the tread, of the reentrant and salient angles, respectively. Successive transverse blocks alternately terminate at greater and lesser distances from the median plane of the tire, and each transverse groove has less-steeply-inclined walls than the circumferential grooves have and have at every level a greater width than the circumferential grooves have at the same level.
The tread of a pneumatic tire is formed with circumferential grooves. The depth dimensions of the grooves are inclined with respect to the perpendicular to the tread. The angles of inclination are all within the range of 45.degree. in one direction to 45.degree. in the other direction.
The median zone of the tread of a tire includes elements in relief directed longitudinally. Lateral zones on either side of the median zone include elements in relief directed transversely. Successive ones of the transverse elements in each of the lateral zones have inner ends alternately closer to and farther from the median plane. Different portions of the longitudinal elements are at different distances from the median plane. The longitudinal and transverse elements overlap at least partially.
The tread of a snow tire is formed with a plurality of spaced-apart blocks in relief succeeding one another in the longitudinal direction and additional elements in relief connecting the spaced-apart blocks.
An improvement in an adjustable tire chain of the type having inboard and outboard adjustable straps with link chains extending between the straps at spaced intervals, in which the straps have butterfly plugs which serve to form the straps into rectilinear sections and to connect the straps to the chains.
A composite of a metallic material and vulcanized rubber is produced by contacting an unvulcanized rubber with a metallic material plated with a metal selected from the metals of Group IV of the Periodic Table.
The invention has an object the production of good solderability wires of copper and copper alloys, through a uniformly thick coating of pure tin or a tin alloy with Pb and/or Sb, Bi, Zn and Cd. This object is achieved by passing perpendicularly (or at a small angle to the vertical) copper or a copper alloy wire through a heated zone after passing a tin bath. This heated zone is within a heated gas chamber which is traversed by the wire with the wire at such a distance from the chamber wall that the oscillating wire is not contacted by the wall. In accordance with the present invention, a wire with 0.2 to 1 mm. and preferably 0.5 mm. diameter is led, after passing the tin bath, through a heating zone of a round or a square cross section, with a length of 30 to 100 cm. and a temperature of 200.degree. to 430.degree. C. Adhesion forces as well as surface tension forces are active in the development of a uniformly thick tin coating. The present invention also relates to a device used to perform the above method.
Tires which are substantially non-flatspotting are reinforced with nylon cord treated with aliphatic hydroxylated plasticizer, which cords are stretched while heating, and the tires are thereby made substantially non-flatspotting.
The device for upward displacement of the tire on the wheel comprises a ring upon which rests the tire to be removed as well as means for the purpose of moving aforesaid ring to a lower and to an upper position, in such a manner that in its lower position aforesaid ring extends beyond the table and all its elements towards the top as well as on all sides. The head of the tool which is integral with the rod of adjustable height and which is used for fitting and removing a tire, is fitted with a pivot pin set at an angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of aforementioned rod, this pivot pin being provided with a conical guide roller, the conical side surface of which cooperates with the edge of the wheel to be handled.
A slidably shiftable closure and ventilating panel unit comprised of alternate air impervious, translucent panel sections and air pervious, ventilating panel sections is suspended on a guide track over spaced apart openings separated by solid wall sections of an upright wall structure. The panel unit is slidably shiftable back and forth on the guide track between an open position in which the ventilating panel sections are aligned over the openings and a closed position in which the air impervious panel sections are aligned over the openings in position to be pulled in tightly against weather stripping around the openings by latch means affixed to the upright wall structure inside of the openings. The air impervious panel sections are comprised of an opaque sheet of thermal insulating material having at least one through aperture therein of decorative configuration and an overlying sheet of translucent, air impervious material.
An apparatus for making sand molds is disclosed, having a plurality of equally spaced stations, a pair of first and second mold chambers, with the first mold chamber being stationarily mounted and the second mold chamber pivoted to the first mold chamber. The chambers are rotated successively to the various stations where the steps of making sand molds are successively executed, such as filling with mold sand, compressing of the sand, removal of the mold halves and so on.Also disclosed is a plate within a mold chamber with a plurality of passages leading through the plate into the mold chamber for passing compressed air therethrough to thoroughly mix the sand while it is being compressed within the mold chamber.
Bottomless cope and drag boxes mounted on a turntable are cleaned, assembled upon a pattern plate, turned on edge and clamped between closure platens and filled with molding sand. The platens are then advanced into the boxes to compress the sand against the patterns to form molds. Upon withdrawal of the platens, a sprue hole is made, the assembly is rotated to horizontal, and the boxes and contained molds are separated from the pattern plate, which is then withdrawn. After insertion of cores, if any, the boxes and molds are reclosed. An elevator rises through a withdrawal yoke into engagement with the mold whereupon a complementary platen opposing the elevator forces the sand mold downwardly from the boxes and into the plane of the yoke to the level of a withdrawal table onto which the yoke draws the mold, leaving the boxes empty for repetition of the process.
One form of mold forming apparatus includes a carriage mounting a flask, the carriage being movable horizontally between a mold forming position and a position adjacent a mold discharging station. In the mold forming position, the flask and a lower pattern plate form a mold chamber into which sand is deposited. The flask and lower pattern plate are then moved vertically to compress the sand against an upper pattern plate. After the mold is formed, the flask and lower pattern plate are returned to their initial position. The lower pattern plate is then lowered away from the flask and the flask is rotated ninety degrees. The carriage is then moved to the discharge station and a pusher element discharges the mold from the flask onto a support. In another form, a pair of horizontally movable carriages mount vertically movable flasks. Respective lower cope and drag pattern plates and the flasks are movable vertically upwardly to compress the sand and form molds. When returned, and the lower pattern plates are moved away from the flasks, the flasks are rotated ninety degrees. The flask carrying carriages are then moved toward the discharge station to butt the molds and thereby form the mold cavity and for discharge of the molds onto a support.
This invention relates to improved process and apparatus for producing reinforced composite light alloys. The improved apparatus comprises means for feeding a fluidized mixture of particulate additions, carried by a neutral gas, to a crucible in which a basic metal consisting preferably of nearly pure aluminium ingots is molten. Means are provided for stirring the contents of the crucible during the feeding of said mixture thereto, in order to prevent the sedimentation or decantation of the dispersion formed therein. Means are further provided for transferring the mixture of basic metal and additions into another receptacle in which the desorption and degasing of said mixture take place.
A thin-walled, highly heat conductive mold for casting low porosity metal articles having thin sections. The mold is perforate to provide a narrow gate opening preferably within the mold wall rather than along the mold parting line. In removing the articles from the mold the solidified metal in the gate opening breaks at its junction with the cast article to provide a gate-free article. A method is provided for producing, at a high production rate, the above-mentioned cast articles.
Apparatus and method for inducing radial directional solidification in parts having a relatively large dimension at right angles to the major axis such as discs and the like, in which, for example, a [010] radial and [100] tangential orientation is generated.
A method and apparatus for drum casting metal strips from a molten metal such as lead containing reactive alloying additives. The apparatus comprises a feed trough having a system of holding and casting sections, weirs, baffles, and conduits for providing a controlled flow of molten metal of uniform temperature to a quiescent bath of said molten metal, free of entrained gas bubbles, in a drum casting zone.
A personnel shelter is defined by a canopy and end walls of transparent lightweight flexible material which are removably attached to a bench. Heating and cooling, and air circulating devices are incorporated with the personnel shelter for conditioning the air within the shelter.
A personnel shelter is defined by a canopy and end walls of transparent lightweight flexible material which are removably attached to a bench. Heating and cooling, and air circulating devices are incorporated with the personnel shelter for conditioning the air within the shelter.
An internal combustion engine, having a heat exchange system, a fan for moving air therethrough and a shroud and shroud exit section for controlling the air path. The shroud exit encloses the fan and includes throat (CF) radial expander (R) and radial flat (RF) sections whereby air is drawn through the heat exchanger axially and expelled radially along said exit sections simultaneously interruption sections or cutout portion are strategically located in the shroud exit to direct parts of the air flow whereby they exit axially. The fan has a projected axial width (AW) such that a general relationship exists with the shroud exit sections: CF = AW/3, RF = AW/3, and R = 2AW/3.
A Kort nozzle surrounding a ship's propeller has slots along the inner and outer sides of its trailing edge. Water can be selectively drawn into the inner slots and ejected from the outer slots, or vice versa, to augment the action of the nozzle as an accelerating nozzle or as a decelerating nozzle. Alternatively, water can be drawn in and ejected selectively about the periphery of the nozzle to augment steering.
Air sterilizing plant for supplying completely sterile air which includes in the heating path of the air stream a filter means heated to the air sterilization temperature to assure uniformity of temperature in the air stream.
An electrical heater to produce clean and dry compressed air comprising a housing in which an electrical heating means is centrally mounted and is surrounded by a coiled tubing to which compressed air is admitted at one end and exited therefrom at the other end, thence passed through a filter and led therefrom to a point of use. The filter serves to remove moisture from the compressed air and has replaceable elements which can easily be changed. A temperature responsive sensing element is provided adjacent the coiled tubing to control the degree of energization of the heating unit and thus the temperature of the compressed air.
A heat exchanger for exchanging heat from an initially hot gas to an initially cooler gas. The heat exchanger includes a toroidal shell with inlet and outlet ports for passing the hot gas through the shell and an inner transverse wall for limiting annular flow of the hot gas to a single revolution within the shell. A coil of tubing is contained within the shell and is arranged in a plurality of spaced, annular bundles about the axis of the toroidal shell with sequential turns of tubing lying in different bundles and each turn of tubing within a bundle being spaced from the other turns of tubing in that bundle. The bundles are twisted with respect to one another about a centrally positioned annular support ring. At its down stream end, the tubing passes outwardly of the heat exchanger and the heated gas issuing therefrom may be used to drive, for example, a turbine.
A heat exchange apparatus comprising a tube and plate and a method of manufacture for the heat exchange apparatus. The method includes the steps of forming the tube, such as by extrusion, to provide an external attachment appendage which, in the illustrative embodiment, is T-shaped in cross section, forming spaced parallel slots in a thin plate, offsetting the material of the plate along and adjacent the slots to accommodate the T-shaped attachment appendage in sliding relationship therewith and, finally, compressing the tube against the plate to lock the two elements together and to provide a flush surface on the side of the plate which is opposite the tube. The offsetting need not be carried out as a separate step but may take place simultaneously with the final compression. In a specific embodiment, the mechanical bond is enhanced by forming spaced parallel flanges on the interior surface of the attachment appendage.
A simplified and efficient dual string hydraulically actuated packer assembly is disclosed which utilizes unitary tubular anchor means, compressible packer elements, and spring-loaded, shearable, ratcheting packer lock means.
A well packer of the type which is set by hydraulic pressure injected through the tubing string, having a setting chamber between the pistons therein which actuate the packer, wherein one of the pistons is floating while the packer is being lowered to compensate for thermal expansion or contraction and pressure differentials encountered as the packer is lowered in the well in order to prevent undue pressure from being applied to the pistons which could cause the shearing of shear pins holding the packer in unset position which would prematurely set the packer.
Disclosed is an improved well tool that utilizes a unitary gripping member that is pivotally carried by the well tool for movement between a wall engaging position and a retracted position wherein the well tool can be moved through the well bore. A sleeve extends through the gripping member and has a lug thereon that is engageable with the gripping member. A cam member carried by the sleeve or by the gripping member is engageable with both the gripping member and the well bore wall as the sleeve is moved upwardly relative to the gripping member to initiate movement of the gripping member from the well engaging position to the retracted position.
A first unitary slip located beneath the packing element is set from the surface by the operator by applying the weight of the tubing. Whenever the pressure beneath the packer exceeds the pressure above the packer which would normally cause the packer assembly to be moved upwardly within the casing, the excess pressure is used to drive a setting piston downwardly against a spring, the downward movement causing a setting sleeve to cause an upper unitary slip to rotate into contact with the casing and act as an anchor against upward movement of the tool. When it is desired to retrieve the overall assembly, pulling up on the tubing string causes the pressure to be equalized across the packer assembly and the tool can be removed from the borehole. The spring against which the setting piston works enables the apparatus to be run through fluid while moving through the borehole without a premature setting of the anchor assembly.
An annulus pressure operated oil well testing and sampling apparatus utilizes hydrostatic pressure to supplement spring means which biases against valve means to hold the valve means closed until application of sufficient hydraulic pressure to the annular fluid opens the tool to the formation and allows testing operations to be performed. A subsequent intentional or inadvertent release or sudden extreme increase of applied pressure on the annular fluid actuates means to close the valve means against further formation fluid flow.
In accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the present invention, an apparatus is described for making automatic formation evaluation tests in a well bore. To accomplish this, a formation tester is provided with timing means for controlling execution of various predetermined operations, such execution continuing from initiation to termination of the test with no requirement for operator intervention. The invention is of particular utility in an offshore environment wherein the continually changing elevation of the vessel with respect to the subsea well bore characteristically makes surface control difficult.
Method and apparatus for testing offshore wells where a conduit string connected with a testing string is supported in a wellhead during testing operations and where a combination of gravity responsive means and extensible means effect operation of a testing valve.The apparatus includes a testing string containing a series of abutments for supporting an upper portion of the string in the wellhead, slip joint, a safety valve operable in response to the slip joint, drill collars which function as gravity responsive valve actuating means, a testing valve including an hydraulic impedance mechanism, a sample chamber and pressure recorder, a jar tool, a safety joint, and a packer mechanism which serves to anchor the lower portion of the string in a submerged well.
A method and apparatus for testing offshore wells where variations in well annulus pressure are utilized to control the valving operation of a testing tool and entrap a formation sample.A confined body of pressurized fluid positioned in a testing string is utilized to predetermine the annulus pressure changes which will effect said valving and sample entrapping operations.
Methods for offshore drill stem testing from a floating vessel using a tester operated by upward and downward motion and coupled to a packer by a slip joint, the equipment being suspended in the well bore on upper and lower pipe string sections connected together by a slip joint. The tester and slip joints are balanced with respect to fluid pressure so that a sequence of free points observed on the rig weight indicator at the surface provides positive indications of operation of the tools.
Methods and apparatus for testing offshore wells with testing equipment operated in response to changes in the pressure of fluids in the well annulus, wherein the test valve is opened and closed in response to such pressure changes to alternately flow and shut-in the formations, and a reversing valve is automatically opened after a predetermined minimum number of pressure changes have occurred to enable fluids received in the pipe string to be removed before withdrawing the test tools from the well.
Methods and apparatus for performing a drill stem test of an offshore well utilizing a pressure controlled test valve. The test valve includes a valve element having a transverse pressure area with the high pressure side exposed to the pressure of fluids in the well annulus and the low pressure side subject to the pressure of a compressible fluid medium contained within a chamber in the test valve. The pressure in the chamber is equalized with the hydrostatic head of the well fluids so that at test depth the same pressure is acting on both sides of the transverse pressure area, whereupon this pressure is confined within the chamber. Then a fluid pressure in excess of the hydrostatic head is applied to the well fluids externally of the test valve to develop a pressure difference across the valve element which causes it to shift from closed to open position.
A full bore opening valve operator apparatus adapted for mounting with a flow tubing to releasably receive a flow controlling valve means movable through the bore of the tubing for operably securing with the apparatus for remotely-controlled operation of the valve means by either a first or second control means to control the flow through the bore.
A valve for installation in a flow conductor for controlling flow of fluids through the conductor, which may be controlled from a remote point and which may act automatically as a safety valve, including means for positively propping the valve in the open position to hold the same in such open position when desired, for performing various well service operations through the valve, for taking the valve out of operation permanently or for flowing the well without affecting operation of the valve, and further including means for locating and operating a supplemental flow control valve at such point in the flow conductor. Also includes a releasable restraining device for holding the valve in the open position which is movable to a position freeing the valve for normal functioning.
Opening and closing of a subsurface safety valve in a well tubing is regulated by control pressure supplied to the valve through a pressure passage extending from the valve to the well surface. Reduction in control pressure in the passage permits the valve to move to its normally closed position under the influence of a compressed spring. Repressuring the passage acts through an expansion chamber to reopen the valve against the force of the spring. A pressure bypass is provided for equalizing pressures above and below the closed valve to ease reopening of the valve. The valve may be permanent or retrievable, and in one form of the invention, a retrievable valve is landed within an inoperative, permanent safety valve. In the latter embodiment, means are provided for regulating opening and closing of the retrievable valve by pressure supplied through the pressure passage previously regulating operation of the permanent valve. In one form of the invention, the passage is provided by a small control line and in another form, the passage is provided between two concentric tubing strings.
One or more helical torsion springs have arms mounted on their opposite ends which are slideably connected within a groove formed between a U-shaped member and a well instrument such that the spring forces the well instrument into contact with the cased side-wall of an earth borehole. As the instrument traverses tubing or casing having a greater internal diameter, a greater force is exerted to place the instrument against the sidewall.
This application discloses new and improved apparatus for perforating earth formations and then cleaning debris and the like from such perforations. As disclosed herein, the new and improved perforator of the present invention is provided with one or more pairs of like or similar perforating devices operatively arranged for producing perforations in an earth formation which are selectively directed so that each pair of perforations will be in fluid communication with each other. An enclosed low-pressure chamber is coupled to one of the perforating devices in each set and a seal is arranged around the perforating axis of this perforating device for at least limiting the direct entrance of well bore fluids into the perforation produced thereby. In this manner, upon operation of each pair of the perforating devices, well bore fluids will be drawn into the perforation produced by the other perforating device and be swept through the intercommunicating perforations into the low-pressure chamber for cleaning debris and loose formation materials from the perforations.
Improved oil recovery from reservoirs having average permeabilities less than 100 md is obtained by injecting into and displacing through the reservoir an aqueous mobility buffer containing an N-sulfohydrocarbon-substituted acrylamide polymer. A micellar solution slug is preferably injected ahead of the buffer slug. This polymer has a reasonably high intrinsic viscosity and permits high injection rates. "Plugging" of the reservoir is minimal at worst.
Crude oil within a subterranean formation is recovered by injecting into the formation a novel high water content oil-external micellar dispersion (containing 55 to about 90 percent water) and moving the micellar dispersion through the formation to displace crude oil. The micellar dispersion contains a surfactant having an average equivalent weight of about 350 to about 525.
Polymers of N-sulfohydrocarbon-substituted acrylamides, especially 2-acrylamido-2-methylpropanesulfonic acid, are useful for controlling the viscosity of aqueous media used in water-flooding operations for secondary petroleum recovery. The preferred polymers are homopolymers and copolymers with acrylic acid or acrylamides.
A body is provided with means for securing it to a tubular member, and the body is provided with a plurality of first helical, flexible cable loops with a portion of each loop facing in one direction and the other loop portion facing in an opposite direction relative to the longitudinal axis of the body to provide leading and trailing portions in each cable loop, and a plurality of second helical, flexible cable loops are mounted on the body with a portion of each loop facing in one direction and the other loop portion facing in an opposite direction, and with the second cable loops being longitudinally offset in relation to the first helical cable loops to form a figure 8 in plan view and thereby provide a plurality of adjacent leading and trailing portions with the leading portions facing in the direction of movement of the tubular member in the well bore to thereby engage the well bore wall and resist collapsing as the tubular member is moved to clean the well bore wall.
A method for recovering bituminous petroleum from tar sand deposits by hydraulic mining. In one illustrative embodiment, an injection string having horizontally oriented nozzles on the lower end thereof and provided on the surface with means for rotating the injection string simultaneous with injecting fluids down the injection string. A separate flow path for recovery of the injected fluid with bitumen mixed therewith to the surface of the earth is also provided, which may be the annulus between an outer casing with the rotatable injection string in the center thereof. The fluid used in conjunction with this solution-mining technique is an aqueous solution of a polyphosphate wetting agent plus an alkalinity agent, heated to a temperature greater than the temperature of the tar sand deposit. The bituminous petroleum is separated from the phosphate solution by contacting the fluid with a hydrocarbon fluid such as diesel oil.
A method for recovering tar or extremely viscous hydrocarbons from anunderground formation. The method includes the steps of injecting anaqueous solution of anionic orthophosphate ester surfactant into thehydrocarbon-bearing formation, retaining the surfactant in the formationat least about 24 hours, and displacing the solubilized hydrocarbontoward a recovery well. The surfactant solution forms a soluble oilmicroemulsion with the formation hydrocarbons.5 Claims, No Drawings
Hot caustic solution is injected into an unconsolidated silty lens extending through the Athabasca bitumen reservoir between injection and production wells. Over a period of time part of the lens is rendered movable. The mud is forced to the production well and removed therefrom, leaving a steam-permeable communications zone extending between the wells. Steam can then be injected into the zone to heat the bitumen and form an emulsion which can be forced to the production well. In this way, bitumen is recovered at the surface.
A hot, competent, permeable communications zone, connecting injection and production wells completed in a tar sand, is developed as follows: A cold, aqueous solution containing sodium hydroxide and a non-ionic surfactant is injected into a propped fracture system connecting the wells. The solution is circulated between the wells at a pressure below the fracture propping pressure. Bitumen is slowly emulsified in the solution and removed through the fracture system; a competent, bitumen -- depleted zone contiguous to the fracture zone is thereby developed. The temperature of the solution is then slowly increased and the quantities of sodium hydroxide and surfactant gradually decreased until pure steam only is being circulated.
In the process of stimulating the production of petroleum from underground formations by treating the formation with steam, including steam flooding and the "huff and puff" steam soak techniques, the improvement which is characterized by the use of demulsifiers in conjunction with steam.
A method for treating a preselected portion of a subterranean hydrocarbon formation penetrated by at least one well bore to free the formation of oxygen and provide a water-wet matrix.
Water-external micellar dispersions containing hydrocarbon, surfactant, and 50--95 percent by volume water are contacted with a gas (e.g. air or nitrogen) to form a stable foam which is then injected into and displaced through an oil-bearing reservoir to recover crude oil. The foam may be generated in situ as well as on the surface.
For more efficient recovery of petroleum, particularly for recovery of residual oil after conventional water flooding, an aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide is injected into the oil-bearing formation and followed by an alkaline solution such as an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. The resulting treated slug may then be displaced toward a production well or wells, preferably employing a mobility control agent in the driving fluid, to sweep out residual oil.
A dual surfactant system usable in the presence of from about 200 to about 18,000 parts per million polyvalent ions, such as calcium and/or magnesium, and a method of using said surfactant system for recovering petroleum from subterranean formations, said surfactant system comprising water soluble salts of alkyl or alkylaryl sulfonates wherein the alkyl chain may have from five to 25 carbon atoms, plus sulfated oxyalkylated surfactants containing arylalkyl groups.
Micellar dispersions useful in flooding subterranean formations and desirably having a particular brine tolerance permitted by the components within the micellar dispersion are obtained by utilizing low average equivalent weight surfactants to obtain a high brine tolerance and increasing average equivalent weight surfactant to obtain lower brine tolerances. These dispersions are injected and displaced through the formation to give improved oil recoveries.
An aqueous liquid is thickened by dissolving in it a substantially non-ionic polymeric material that is at least partially water-soluble and a surfactant that is ionic and combines with the polymeric material and causes it to behave like a dissolved polyelectrolyte.
A waterflood oil recovery process in which an aqueous liquid that contains a surfactant and a thickener is injected into a reservoir to displace oil toward a recovery location is improved by coordinating the types and proportions of the components. The thickener concentration is adjusted to provide a mobility at least substantially as low as that of the fluids in the reservoir, and the surfactant concentration is adjusted to provide a rate of frontal advance of surfactant that substantially equals the rate of frontal advance of thickener.
A process for recovering petroleum from a subterranean reservoir by flooding with a surfactant wherein the adsorption of surfactant by the reservoir rock is inhibited by treating the reservoir with an aqueous preflush solution of a water soluble salt of a strong mineral acid having an oxygen containing anion prior to injecting the surfactant. Preferably, treatment is accomplished by injecting an aqueous solution of soluble nitrates, sulfates or phosphates into the reservoir in an amount sufficient to satisfy substantially all of the adsorption capacity of the reservoir matrix followed by injection of an aqueous solution of the surfactant. The preflush compound and the surfactant solution can be subsequently displaced through the formation by any convenient aqueous drive fluid including water.
A three component surfactant system usable in the presence of from about 1,500 to about 12,000 parts per million polyvalent ions, such as calcium and/or magnesium, and a method of using said surfactant system for recovering petroleum from subterranean formations, said surfactant system comprising a water soluble salt of an alkyl or alkylaryl sulfonate anionic surfactant plus a water soluble salt of an alkyl polyethoxy sulfate anionic surfactant plus a nonionic surfactant such as a polyethoxylated alkyl phenol, a polyethoxylated aliphatic alcohol or a fatty acid mono- or dialkanolamide.
A dual surfactant system usable in the presence of from about 500 to about 9,000 parts per million polyvalent ions, such as calcium and/or magnesium, and a method of using said surfactant system for recovering petroleum from subterranean formations, said surfactant system comprising a water soluble salt of an alkyl or an alkylaryl sulfonate or phosphate wherein the alkyl chain has from 5 to 25 carbon atoms, plus a nonionic surfactant such as a polyethyoxylated alkyl phenol or a polyethyoxylated aliphatic alcohol.
A two component surfactant system usable in the presence of from about 3,000 to about 18,000 parts per million polyvalent ions, including calcium and or magnesium, and a method of using said dual surfactant system for recovering petroleum from subterranean formations, said surfactant system comprising a water soluble salt of a linear alkyl or a linear alkylaryl sulfonate first anionic surfactant plus a water soluble salt of an alkyl polyethoxy sulfate second anionic surfactant.
Polyacrylamide and its derivatives are removed from a subterranean formation by flooding the formation with an aqueous polyamine solution. Skin damage can also be removed by this process, resulting in an improved injectivity index. The polyamine solution is preferably lower mono and dialkyl diamines, and more preferably is hydrazine.
Reduced permeabilities in the vicinity of a well bore caused by polymersolution deposits are improved by introducing into the well bore anaqueous solution having a pH greater than about 8 and containing sodiumhypochlorite.7 Claims, No Drawings
A process for the recovery of hydrocarbons from subterranean hydrocarbon-bearing formations by the treatment of the formation with an aqueous medium containing an alkali metal hydroxide and a low molecular weight amine.
The sealing of void spaces, e.g. as in geological formations and/or between metal shapes is accomplished with a liquid slurry of a particulate, water-soluble organic polymer in an organosolvent The mixture of the polymer and solvent has a controlled set time to allow the emplacement of the slurry as a liquid. The slurry then sets to form a sealing cementitious material.
The wellbore, fractures, and adjacent matrices are soaked with solutions of aliphatic amines for several hours, after which they are pushed by a slug of solvent into the formation matrix. Subsequently, normal production is resumed. This treatment prevents scale accumulation on the treated surfaces, whereas untreated surfaces will accumulate copious quantities of the precipitating solid. The chemical nature of the treating compound is such that the compound tends to migrate from the treatment solution to the solid surfaces in the wellbore, fractures, and formation matrices, thereby giving treatment which prevents scale buildup which, if it were not prevented, would decrease the rate of oil production.
This specification discloses a hydraulic fracturing method for forming long, narrow, vertical fractures in a thick, low permeability formation. The formation is treated by injecting thereinto in a single stage and at a relatively low injection rate a very large volume of relatively low viscosity fracturing fluid.
The present invention is directed to a method for fracturing a subterranean formation penetrated by a well bore, the fracturing being accomplished by alternately injecting into said formation a high-viscosity non-Newtonian fluid and a low-viscosity Newtonian fluid. The low-viscosity fluid carries propping agents into the fracture if a wide fracture having a relatively small radius and a layered proppant configuration is desired, and the high-viscosity fluid carries propping agents into the formation if narrow fractures having a relatively large radius and a high permeability are desired.
The formations surrounding a well bore are subjected to hydraulic fracturing. A liquified gas and a fluid containing entrained propping agents are injected into the formations. The liquified gas returns to its gaseous state and is therefore easily removed from the formation.
A process for hydraulically fracturing a permeable subterranean formation in which the fracture faces are treated to reduce their permeability to the fracturing fluid and propping agent is placed in the fracture in a conventional manner whereby the bulk of the propping agent is deposited in the fracture at a location remote from the well, and thereafter the fracture faces are treated to restore their permeability to subsequently injected fluids and propping agent is again injected into the fracture whereby the bulk of the propping agent is deposited in the fracture adjacent to the well. In this manner, fluid conductively through the fracture is assured.
A fracturing method wherein an improved oil-in-water emulsion is injected into a subterranean formation under sufficient pressure to open a fracture in the formation and constituents of the emulsion are thereafter produced from the formation. The emulsion contains a major volume proportion of an internal liquid hydrocarbon phase and a minor volume proportion of an external water phase containing a water-dispersible polymeric thickening agent in a concentration sufficient to provide the water phase with an apparent viscosity of at least 10 centipoises at 70.degree. F and a shear rate of 511 reciprocal seconds. The emulsion is formulated so that the internal oil phase constitutes more than 50 but not more than about 80 volume percent, and preferably between about 60 and about 75 volume percent, of the emulsion.
A subterranean formation surrounding a wellbore is treated by injecting into the formation a water-based viscous fluid containing a complex produced by the reaction of an aliphatic quaternary ammonium compound with a water-soluble compound selected from the group consisting of monosaccharides, disaccharides, trisaccharides, polysaccharides, and long chain synthetic hydroxylated polymers which yield such complexes at a temperature between about 20.degree.C and about 205.degree.C or higher. The complexes permit the formation of emulsions and other viscous fluids which are more stable at elevated temperatures and in the presence of salts than those prepared with other materials and thus facilitate the treating of high-temperature formations not readily susceptible to treatment with other water-based fluids. Fluids containing the complexes are particularly useful as hydraulic fracturing fluids.
