A rain cover for a golf bag mounted to a pull golf cart. The cover includes a plastic main body having a flat top roof portion extending downwardly and forwardly atop the bag. Two depending side portions are integrally connected to the top roof portion and are positioned immediately adjacent the opposite side walls of the golf bag allowing access to the clubs from either the front or rear portion of the bag. The cover is secured to the handle of the golf cart by means of a strap fastener. A second strap fastener extends around the bag and the bottom ends of the side portions of the cover.
A golf bag protective cover composed of plastic sheet material having slit openings therein which are covered by a plastic skirt which circumvents the entire cover, thus preventing dislodgment by wind while protecting the interior of the golf bag against ingress of rain.
A flexible, waterproof, lightweight compact cover for the top of a golf bag and for golf clubs having a first end and a second end. The first end is snugly secured about the top of the golf bag with fasteners. The first end has at least one slit therein which is received by a ring on the top of the bag preventing rotation of the cover circumferentially about the top of the bag. The second end of the bag extends outwardly from the bag covering the golf clubs and the top of the golf bag. The second end of the cover is folded back and fastened to the first end of the cover. To gain access to the golf club, the second end of the cover is lifted and the golfer may reach in to remove the golf club while still preventing rain from entering the top of the golf bag. The second end of the cover may be rolled downwardly to form a collar about the top of the golf bag and, when so disposed, the cover may be unrolled rapidly to protect the top of the golf bag and golf clubs from rain and inclement weather.
A transparent protective hood (A) is disclosed for a golf bag (10) and clubs (12). The hood includes a back part (22) which terminates short of a front panel (20) and side vents (24, 26) for club removal around the entire bag.
A golf bag rain cover is provided in the form of an envelope that is open at a bottom edge and has a closed top-edge roof. An access surface is provided with at least one access slot parallel to the roof and positioned a select distance below the roof. An access flap is attached above the slot and allowed to hang down over the access slot to a position below the slot. A quick-disconnect fastener is provided for attaching the access flap to the golf bag rain cover below the access slot. Attachment means, which can be quick-disconnect fasteners, are provided at sides and at an attachment surface of the golf bag rain cover for attachment to framework of a golf car. Typically there are two access slots with access flaps for two golf bags side-by-side on back of a golf car.
A slip cover for a golf bag and clubs to protect them from moisture during a sudden shower or rain storm. The slip cover has a discontinuity along one end thereof to receive the handle of a golf cart containing the golf bag and clubs, and a cover flap at its other end to provide access to the golf clubs.
The invention provides a cover which can be used in connection with a golf bag having a hood which includes an opening with fastener means where the hood can be secured to the bag, where the fastener means can be closed or can selectively be opened to allow access to the clubs contained within the bag, where the cover attachment provided by the present invention provides a means to loosely cover the opening provided by the golf bag hood when the hood fastener means are released. The cover includes a cap section to be received over the top of the golf bag hood, fastener means to fasten the cover to the hood at the top of the hood with flap means extending downwardly from the cap means to lay across the opening provided by the hood means and where a portion of the flap means can be releasably attached to the golf bag or the hood.
A golf bag cover for protecting golf clubs during inclement weather is disclosed. The cover of this invention keeps clubs dry while in the bag, and, in addition, provides easy access and an unobstructed view thereof to facilitate selecting a club for play during such weather. The cover of this invention is a tubular sleeve of water impervious, preferably transparent, material having a frustoconical shape. A band of elastic surrounds and gathers the base and the top portions thereof in pleats, and the sleeve is sufficiently elongated so that when the base is fitted over the mouth of the bag, the upper portion of the cover will fold over the club heads. A club is then removed from the bag or returned thereto through the top of the cover. The cover of this invention is preferably constructed of crushable or non-selfsupporting plastic so that it may be collapsed to a compact package for storage.
A plastic bonnet or slipcover for the clubs within a golf bag, to protect the same from sudden shower, storm or the like. The bonnet is of clear plastic, generally in the form of a bag without bottom, provided with a "V" notch from top to near bottom as slipped over the golf bag. Easy access to the clubs is thus provided. For protection of the clubs, the top of the bonnet is simply folded down over the heads of the clubs.
The invention herein disclosed relates to golf bags, and the general objects of the invention are to provide a weatherproof cover which can be quickly and easily applied ovcr the mouth of the bag and over the heads of the clubs projecting therefrom, to protect the clubs and the interior of the bag from rain and the like, and which cover will be in a form that can be compactly folded and kept in the bag for such use and which when applied, may be easily lifted for removal and replacement of clubs, without detaching it from the bag, and then be slipped back into protective position over the end of the bag
A protective cover protects and covers a golf bag. The protective cover includes a base portion and a middle portion which is connected to the base portion, and has an opening for allowing the golf bag to be inserted into the cover with the base of the golf bag fitting into the base portion of the cover. Further, the cover includes a top portion connected to the middle portion. The top portion has a height sufficient for covering a plurality of golf clubs stored in the golf bag, and an opening is also provided in the top portion for allowing access to the golf clubs.
The objects of my invention are to provide a simple, strong, lightweight, transparent coat or cover for golf bags and their contents which can be readily applied or taken oif golf bags either when transported on a golf cart or carried by hand; to provide a hood or cover which will deflect rain when closed, and can be easily opened and held in either open or closed position as desired; to provide such a coat and hood which can be easily opened for the removal of a club or other contents and allow a club to be removed therefrom without the other clubs being rained on and which can remain in open position when desired; to provide convenient pockets for balls and a convenient pocket for a score card or record upon which a record can be readily kept during the progress of a game.
A rain cover for a golf bag mounted to a pull golf cart. The cover includes a plastic main body having a flat top roof portion extending downwardly and forwardly atop the bag. Two depending side portions are integrally connected to the top roof portion and are positioned immediately adjacent the opposite side walls of the golf bag allowing access to the clubs from either the front or rear portion of the bag. The cover is secured to the handle of the golf cart by means of a strap fastener. A second strap fastener extends around the bag and the bottom ends of the side portions of the cover.
A golf bag protective cover composed of plastic sheet material having slit openings therein which are covered by a plastic skirt which circumvents the entire cover, thus preventing dislodgment by wind while protecting the interior of the golf bag against ingress of rain.
An improved golf bag cover (10) for protecting the golf bag (24), including its golf clubs (30), towel (28), and othe accessories and objects from rain, mud, dirt, and dust during play or while equipment is stored. The cover (10) is composed of a clear, flexible, water impervious plastic, such as polyethylene. It is made in the form of a tubular sleeve of suitable flexibility and strength. The cover (10) is open on both ends with connected drawcords (20a) and (20b) at the top for opening or closing it. The cover can be slipped over to surround the clubs (30), towel (28), and the upper part of the bag (24) and straps (26). Thereupon it is drawn closed at the top. Cover (10) at the top can be pulled open in seconds for convenient access to the clubs (30) and dry towel (28). After the selected club is withdrawn, the cover is immediately drawn closed again until the club is returned. The cover fits all bags and is practical for use whether the golf bag (24) is placed on a hand cart, electric or gas cart, or hand carried by a strap (26). This golf bag cover can be manufactured cheaply and simply.
A flexible, waterproof, lightweight compact cover for the top of a golf bag and for golf clubs having a first end and a second end. The first end is snugly secured about the top of the golf bag with fasteners. The first end has at least one slit therein which is received by a ring on the top of the bag preventing rotation of the cover circumferentially about the top of the bag. The second end of the bag extends outwardly from the bag covering the golf clubs and the top of the golf bag. The second end of the cover is folded back and fastened to the first end of the cover. To gain access to the golf club, the second end of the cover is lifted and the golfer may reach in to remove the golf club while still preventing rain from entering the top of the golf bag. The second end of the cover may be rolled downwardly to form a collar about the top of the golf bag and, when so disposed, the cover may be unrolled rapidly to protect the top of the golf bag and golf clubs from rain and inclement weather.
A transparent protective hood (A) is disclosed for a golf bag (10) and clubs (12). The hood includes a back part (22) which terminates short of a front panel (20) and side vents (24, 26) for club removal around the entire bag.
A golf bag rain cover composed of waterproof plastic material having a flap to which a golf scorecard pocket is sealed; the flap extends across the top opening and is sealed on both ends. A drawstring along the bottom is placed under the golf bag strap ring on one side and can be pulled tight and held fast with a cord-locking device on the other. This invention protects the clubs and scorecard from inclement weather while allowing easy access to them and a positive attachment of the cover to the bag.
A rain cover (10) for a golf bag (80) comprises a belt (20) adapted for attachment around the club-receiving opening (85) of a golf bag (80), a pocket (40) attached to the belt (20), a hood (60) and a skirt (70). The hood (60) is made of collapsible waterproof material and is manipulable from a stored position within the pocket (40) to a deployed position substantially completely enveloping the club receiving opening (85) and any clubs (99) contained therein. The skirt (70) is made of collapsible waterproof material and is manipulable from a stored position within the pocket (70) to a deployed position substantially completely enveloping the golf bag body (82). The belt (20) includes snap fasteners (36) slidingly attached to the belt (20) for mating attachment with snap fasteners (86) of the bag (80).
There is provided a new and useful golf bag cover for the improved protection of a golf bag and its contents from rain and like precipitation. The cover is made up of first and second flexible planar sheets, each of elongated and preferably generally rectangular configuration. The first sheet has a top and a bottom portion while the second sheet also has a top and a bottom portion but the top portion extends beyond the top portion of the first sheet. The second sheet is further provided with an overlapping pair of flaps at an upper area of the second sheet extending downwards over the top portion of the first sheet. The first and second sheets are fastened substantially continuously along a side edge of each of said sheets.
It is the primary end of the present invention, therefore, to provide an improved cover which will furnish this needed protection. This new and improved cover envelops and effectively Waterproofs the clubs and bag during normal use and thereby protects them from rain and dampness. Access to the clubs isprovided by means of a slit in the top portion of the cover which is directly over the clubs. In addition, the cover is transparent, permitting the player a ready visual selection of the clubs. Since the cover is made from collapsible lightweight material, it adds no appreciable weight or bulk to the golf bag and can be folded and easily stored in a pocket of the bag when not in use.
A cover for preventing water from entering a golf bag while removing clubs therefrom comprises a tubular sleeve formed of a water impervious, flexible material. The sleeve has upper and lower openings with an elastic band extending around and integral with the lower opening, and an absorbent cloth collar fastened around the upper opening. The lower opening of the tubular sleeve is larger than the diameter of the golf bag. The elastic band of the lower opening effectively draws said lower opening into relatively tight contact with the outer surface of the golf bag. The length of the sleeve is such that at least a portion of said sleeve extends a sufficient distance from the golf bag to collapse the sleeve whereby the upper opening is positioned in substantially the same direction as the lower opening. The length of the sleeve is approximately the same as the golf bag.
A golf bag rain cover is provided in the form of an envelope that is open at a bottom edge and has a closed top-edge roof. An access surface is provided with at least one access slot parallel to the roof and positioned a select distance below the roof. An access flap is attached above the slot and allowed to hang down over the access slot to a position below the slot. A quick-disconnect fastener is provided for attaching the access flap to the golf bag rain cover below the access slot. Attachment means, which can be quick-disconnect fasteners, are provided at sides and at an attachment surface of the golf bag rain cover for attachment to framework of a golf car. Typically there are two access slots with access flaps for two golf bags side-by-side on back of a golf car.
A flexible cover has a hood with a first opening for receiving an open end of a golf bag to protect the golf clubs retained in the golf bag. The hood has a closeable second opening through which the golf clubs can be removed from the bag and a flap on the hood can cover the second opening. An apron is attached to the hood extending downward over a lower portion of the golf bag. A separate wing flap is attached to opposite sides of the apron and to the hood. The wing flaps extend around the bag to hold the apron against the lower portion of the bag.
A golf bag cover is for use with a golf bag. The cover has a centrally located flap to provide access to an opening in the cover which allows clubs to be removed from the golf bag without removing the cover. The flap and cover have cooperating patches of hook and loop fasteners to seal the flap when the central cavity of the cover is not being accessed. Separate patches of cooperating hook and loop fasteners are provided to secure the cover in a stored condition when not in use. Two sets of patches are located along the outer walls of the cover for use when the cover is folded into a flattened state, and for use when the cover is rolled up for storage. A drawstring at the bottom of the cover secures the cover to bag. A loop which is also provided at the bottom of the cover mates with the bag to prevent accidental removal of the cover.
A flexible golf bag cover for protecting the interior and contents of a golf bag of the type having an open top surrounded by a peripheral rim and having a carrying strap extending laterally from the rim. The golf bag cover comprises a generally cylindrical base having an open bottom, rear and front base walls for overlapping and holding the cover on the golf bag rim, the rear base wall having an openable slit with overlapping slit side edges, each with continuous closures, for closing the slit about the carrying strap. A back wall extends upwardly from the rear wall of the base to an apex and has back lateral side edges. A front flap with front lateral side edges merges with the back lateral side edges, the front flap extending downwardly from the apex to a lower front edge, wherein the lower front edge of the front flap and a top edge of the front base wall define a flexible forwardly open mouth in an open configuration, and wherein the lower front edge of the front flap overlaps the top edge of the front base wall covering the mouth in a closed configuration. Advantageously, the front flap between the front lateral side edges is seamless, enabling printing of logos and graphics.