Role of the aromatic ring of Tyr43 in tetraheme cytochrome c(3) from Desulfovibrio vulgaris Miyazaki F
Tyrosine 43 is positioned parallel to the fifth heme axial ligand, His34, of heme 1 in the tetraheme cytochrome c(3). The replacement of tyrosine with leucine increased the redox potential of heme 1 by 44 and 35 mV at the first and last reduction steps, respectively; its effects on the other hemes are small. In contrast, the Y43F mutation hardly changed the potentials. It shows that the aromatic ring at this position contributes to lowering the redox potential of heme 1 locally, although this cannot be the major contribution to the extremely low redox potentials of cytochrome c(3). Furthermore, temperature-dependent line-width broadening in partially reduced samples established that the aromatic ring at position 43 participates in the control of the kinetics of intramolecular electron transfer. The rate of reduction of Y43L cytochrome c(3) by 5-deazariboflavin semiquinone under partially reduced conditions was significantly different from that of the wild type in the last stage of the reduction, supporting the involvement of Tyr43 in regulation of reduction kinetics. The mutation of Y43L, however, did not induce a significant change in the crystal structure.

Structural basis of drug binding to CYP46A1, an enzyme that controls cholesterol turnover in the brain.
Cytochrome P450 46A1 (CYP46A1) initiates the major pathway of cholesterol elimination from the brain and thereby controls cholesterol turnover in this organ. We determined x-ray crystal structures of CYP46A1 in complex with four structurally distinct pharmaceuticals; antidepressant tranylcypromine (2.15 Å), anticonvulsant thioperamide (1.65 Å), antifungal voriconazole (2.35 Å), and antifungal clotrimazole (2.50 Å). All four drugs are nitrogen-containing compounds that have nanomolar affinity for CYP46A1 in vitro yet differ in size, shape, hydrophobicity, and type of the nitrogen ligand. Structures of the co-complexes demonstrate that each drug binds in a single orientation to the active site with tranylcypromine, thioperamide, and voriconazole coordinating the heme iron via their nitrogen atoms and clotrimazole being at a 4 Å distance from the heme iron. We show here that clotrimazole is also a substrate for CYP46A1. High affinity for CYP46A1 is determined by a set of specific interactions, some of which were further investigated by solution studies using structural analogs of the drugs and the T306A CYP46A1 mutant. Collectively, our results reveal how diverse inhibitors can be accommodated in the CYP46A1 active site and provide an explanation for the observed differences in the drug-induced spectral response. Co-complexes with tranylcypromine, thioperamide, and voriconazole represent the first structural characterization of the drug binding to a P450 enzyme.

Ligand Migration and Binding in the Dimeric Hemoglobin of Scapharca inaequivalvis
Using Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy combined with temperature derivative spectroscopy (TDS) at cryogenic temperatures, we have studied CO binding to the heme and CO migration among cavities in the interior of the dimeric hemoglobin of Scapharca inaequivalvis (HbI) after photodissociation. By combining these studies with X-ray crystallography, three transient ligand docking sites were identified: a primary docking site B in close vicinity to the heme iron, and two secondary docking sites C and D corresponding to the Xe4 and Xe2 cavities of myoglobin. To assess the relevance of these findings for physiological binding, we also performed flash photolysis experiments on HbICO at room temperature and equilibrium binding studies with dioxygen. Our results show that the Xe4 and Xe2 cavities serve as transient docking sites for unbound ligands in the protein, but not as way stations on the entry/exit pathway. For HbI, the so-called histidine gate mechanism proposed for other globins appears as a plausible entry/exit route as well.

Structure of Sr-substituted photosystem II at 2.1 A resolution and its implications in the mechanism of water oxidation
Oxygen-evolving complex of photosystem II (PSII) is a tetra-manganese calcium penta-oxygenic cluster (Mn4CaO5) catalyzing light-induced water oxidation through several intermediate states (S-states) by a mechanism that is not fully understood. To elucidate the roles of Ca(2+) in this cluster and the possible location of water substrates in this process, we crystallized Sr(2+)-substituted PSII from Thermosynechococcus vulcanus, analyzed its crystal structure at a resolution of 2.1 Å, and compared it with the 1.9 Å structure of native PSII. Our analysis showed that the position of Sr was moved toward the outside of the cubane structure of the Mn4CaO5-cluster relative to that of Ca(2+), resulting in a general elongation of the bond distances between Sr and its surrounding atoms compared with the corresponding distances in the Ca-containing cluster. In particular, we identified an apparent elongation in the bond distance between Sr and one of the two terminal water ligands of Ca(2+), W3, whereas that of the Sr-W4 distance was not much changed. This result may contribute to the decrease of oxygen evolution upon Sr(2+)-substitution, and suggests a weak binding and rather mobile nature of this particular water molecule (W3), which in turn implies the possible involvement of this water molecule as a substrate in the O-O bond formation. In addition, the PsbY subunit, which was absent in the 1.9 Å structure of native PSII, was found in the Sr-PSII structure.

The primary and three-dimensional structures of a nine-haem cytochrome c from Desulfovibrio desulfuricans ATCC 27774 reveal a new member of the Hmc family.
Haem-containing proteins are directly involved in electron transfer as well as in enzymatic functions. The nine-haem cytochrome c (9Hcc), previously described as having 12 haem groups, was isolated from cells of Desulfovibrio desulfuricans ATCC 27774, grown under both nitrate- and sulphate-respiring conditions.

The octahaem MccA is a haem c-copper sulfite reductase.
The six-electron reduction of sulfite to sulfide is the pivot point of the biogeochemical cycle of the element sulfur. The octahaem cytochrome c MccA (also known as SirA) catalyses this reaction for dissimilatory sulfite utilization by various bacteria. It is distinct from known sulfite reductases because it has a substantially higher catalytic activity and a relatively low reactivity towards nitrite. The mechanistic reasons for the increased efficiency of MccA remain to be elucidated. Here we show that anoxically purified MccA exhibited a 2- to 5.5-fold higher specific sulfite reductase activity than the enzyme isolated under oxic conditions. We determined the three-dimensional structure of MccA to 2.2 Å resolution by single-wavelength anomalous dispersion. We find a homotrimer with an unprecedented fold and haem arrangement, as well as a haem bound to a CX15CH motif. The heterobimetallic active-site haem 2 has a Cu(I) ion juxtaposed to a haem c at a Fe-Cu distance of 4.4 Å. While the combination of metals is reminiscent of respiratory haem-copper oxidases, the oxidation-labile Cu(I) centre of MccA did not seem to undergo a redox transition during catalysis. Intact MccA tightly bound SO2 at haem 2, a dehydration product of the substrate sulfite that was partially turned over due to photoreduction by X-ray irradiation, yielding the reaction intermediate SO. Our data show the biometal copper in a new context and function and provide a chemical rationale for the comparatively high catalytic activity of MccA.
